[u'The devastating impact of an invasive ambrosia beetle on the riparian habitats of the Tijuana River Valley, California', ['John M Boland'], u'2016-04-17', u'Background. The Tijuana River Valley is the first natural habitat in California to be substantially invaded by the Kuroshio Shot Hole Borer (KSHB, Euwallacea sp.), an invasive ambrosia beetle native to Southeast Asia. This paper documents the distribution of the KSHB in the riparian vegetation in the valley and assesses the damage done to the vegetation as of early 2016, approximately six months after the beetle was first observed in the valley. Methods. I divided the riparian habitats in the valley into 29 survey units such that the vegetation within each was relatively homogenous in terms of species composition, age and density. From a random point within each unit, I examined approximately 60 individuals of the dominant plant species for evidence of KSHB infection and evidence of major damage such as limb breakage. In the 22 forested units, I examined the dominant arroyo and black willows (Salix lasiolepis and S. gooddingii), and in the seven scrub units, I examined mule fat (Baccharis salicifolia). In addition, I recorded evidence of infection in other common species as they were encountered. Results. Evidence of KSHB infection was found in 25 of the 29 units. In the forest units, infection rates ranged from 0 to 100% and were high (>60%) in 16 of the units. In the scrub units, infection rates ranged from 0 to 33%. Infection rates were significantly negatively correlated with the dryness of a unit; drier units had lower infection rates. Evidence of physical damage was found in 24 units, and dense stands of willows were reduced to broken trunks in several areas. Overall, I estimated that more than 280,000 (70%) of the willows in the valley were infected, and more than 140,000 had suffered major limb damage. Of the 23 species examined, 14 showed evidence of beetle attack. The four species with the highest rates of infection were native riparian trees in the Salicaeae family. The three species considered to be the worst invasive plants in the valley, Ricinus communis, Tamarix ramosissima and Arundo donax, had low rates of infection. Discussion. The KSHB has substantially infected and damaged the dominant native trees in the riparian forests of the Tijuana River Valley, and this has led to a drastic alteration in the structure of the canopy of the forests. The loss of canopy is likely to promote the growth and spread of invasive plant species that were relatively inconspicuous in the forests prior to the beetle attack. The beetle\u2019s impacts are a novel disturbance, and it remains to be seen whether the affected forests can recover. If resource managers are to control the spread of the beetle, they will need to develop an effective early detection and rapid response program. Because infection rates in the valley varied along a gradient of dryness, resource managers trying to detect the KSHB in other areas should thoroughly search trees near surface water.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1964/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Southwest Wetlands Interpretive Association']]
[u'The XL-mHG test for enrichment: Algorithms, bounds, and power', ['Florian Wagner'], u'2016-04-17', u'The XL-mHG test is a semiparametric test for enrichment in ranked lists with Boolean (0/1-valued) entries. It is a generalization of the nonparametric mHG test, designed to provide some control over the kind of enrichment that is being tested for, and to allow a flexible trade-off between the sensitivity and robustness of the test. Here, I describe an improved algorithm to efficiently calculate the XL-mHG p-value p, and discuss upper and lower bounds for p. Furthermore, I perform simulations to show that the mHG test is a significantly more powerful alternative to the Kolmogorov-Smirnov (KS) test for detecting enrichment in scenarios that are frequently encountered in biological applications. An open-source Python/Cython implementation of the XL-mHG test is provided in the xlmhg package, which is available from PyPI and GitHub (https://github.com/flo-compbio/xlmhg) under an OSI-approved license.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1962/', ['Computational Biology', 'Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'Graduate Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Duke University', u'Center for Genomic and Computational Biology, Duke University']]
[u'Temporal variation in wolf predation dynamics in the multi-prey system of northern Yellowstone National Park', ['Matthew C Metz', 'Douglas W Smith', 'Mark Hebblewhite', 'Daniel R Stahler'], u'2016-04-17', u'Predation is a fundamental ecological process that shapes ecosystem structure and biodiversity. For large carnivores preying on large ungulates, predation dynamics are influenced by many factors, including climatic conditions, prey abundance, and prey body size. Evaluating the factors that influence how large carnivore predation varies among different-sized prey, both among and within prey species, is critical for understanding how large carnivores influence prey species population dynamics. Here, in the wolf (Canis lupus)-multi-prey system of northern Yellowstone National Park, we assess how temporal variation in prey abundance and vulnerability affect seasonal wolf predation patterns. More specifically, we characterize wolf predation patterns during four seasons of the year (early winter [mid-November to mid-December], late winter [March], spring [May], summer [June, July]) and evaluate the influence of inter-annual variation in the abundance of the two, primary, year-round ungulate prey (elk [Cervus elaphus], bison [Bison bison]) from 1995-2015. Our results highlight how the wolf-prey system of northern Yellowstone National Park has shifted from a wolf-elk system to a wolf-elk-bison system. That is, although elk are still the primary prey for wolves, the proportion of wolf kills that are elk has declined over the last twenty years. Now, bison are more commonly preyed on by wolves, and possibly most importantly, are increasingly scavenged. This change has occurred due to the decline in the northern Yellowstone elk population and concurrent increase in the northern Yellowstone bison population. Although wolf predation of bison is minimal and likely has no influence on bison population abundance, increased use of bison by wolves has a potential effect on wolf population abundance, and as a result, elk population abundance. Our results highlight the importance of considering how subsidies provided through preying on and scavenging secondary prey affect predator-primary prey dynamics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1963/', ['Ecology'], [u'University of Montana', u'Yellowstone Center for Resources']]
[u'Trophic interactions are mediated by the availability of water in temperate grassland ecosystems', ['William Harrower', 'Lauchlan H Fraser', 'Roy Turkington'], u'2016-04-14', u'The addition or removal of predators from food webs by humans can have profound effects on the interactions between species. However, predators and primary producers are inextricably linked by the flow of energy through ecosystems. In temperate grasslands energy flow through ecosystems is often limited by water availability to plants. So, if the number and strength of interactions between species in grasslands depends on the amount of water available to plants, and we remove predators along a gradient in water availability, then we should see change in species interactions with predator removals along the gradient. After estimating trophic position and diet breadth of key predators, we excluded birds and small mammal predators from grasslands along a rainfall gradient in south central British Columbia for four years, and measured the response of plants and arthropods. Water availability significantly altered food web structure, and consequently the role of predators in structuring these ecosystems. When water was scarce, vertebrate predators impeded plant growth by feeding on spiders that would normally eat herbivorous insects. When water was more abundant, vertebrate predators facilitated plant growth by feeding on a broad range of arthropod prey. As water availability to plants increased they grew more. Herbivores were not able to consume all the new growth and thus dead plant material accumulated. Increasing detritus helped establish new links between predators and plants. Phenomena such as climate change can determine the availability of water entering ecosystems, which then alters trophic structure. If water availability can alter food webs there are no simple generalizations for community dynamics that are independent of climate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1961/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Botany Department & Biodiversity Research Center, University of British Columbia', u'Natural Resouce Sciences, Thompson Rivers University']]
[u'Protein-RNA linkage and posttranslational modifications of feline calicivirus and murine norovirus VPg proteins', ['Allan Olspert', 'Myra Hosmillo', 'Yasmin Chaudhry', 'Lauri Peil', 'Erkki Truve', 'Ian Goodfellow'], u'2016-04-14', u'Members of the Caliciviridae family of positive sense RNA viruses cause a wide range of diseases in both humans and animals. The detailed characterization of the calicivirus life cycle had been hampered due to the lack of robust cell culture systems and experimental tools for many of the members of the family. However a number of caliciviruses replicate efficiently in cell culture and have robust reverse genetics systems available, most notable feline calicivirus (FCV) and murine norovirus (MNV). These are therefore widely used as representative members with which to examine the mechanistic details of calicivirus genome translation and replication. The replication of the calicivirus RNA genome occurs via a double stranded RNA intermediate in the cytoplasm of the infected cell which is then used as a template for the production of new positive sense viral RNA, which is covalently linked to the virus-encoded protein VPg. The covalent linkage to VPg occurs during genome replication via the nucleotidylylation activity of the viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. Using FCV and MNV, we used mass spectrometry-based approach to identify the specific amino acid linked to the 5\u2019 end of the viral nucleic acid. We observed that both VPg proteins are covalently linked to GDP moieties via tyrosine positions 24 and 26 for FCV and MNV respectively. These data fit with previous observations indicating that mutations introduced into these specific amino acids are deleterious for viral replication and fail to produce infectious virus. In addition, we also detected serine phosphorylation sites within the FCV VPg protein with positions 80 and 107 found consistently phosphorylated on VPg-linked viral RNA isolated from infected cells. This work provides the first direct experimental characterisation of the linkage of infectious calicivirus viral RNA to the VPg protein and highlights that post-translational modifications of VPg may also occur during the viral life cycle.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1960/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Faculty of Science, Department of Gene Technology, Tallinn University of Technology', u'Division of Virology, Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge', u'Faculty of Science and Technology, Institute of Technology, University of Tartu']]
[u'A possible link between pyriproxyfen and microcephaly', ['Dan Evans', 'Fred Nijhout', 'Raphael Parens', 'Alfredo J Morales', 'Yaneer Bar-Yam'], u'2016-04-14', u'The Zika virus is the primary suspect in the large increase in microcephaly cases in 2015-6 in Brazil, however its role is unconfirmed despite individual cases of viral infections found in neural tissue. Here we consider the alternative that the insecticide pyriproxyfen, used in Brazilian drinking water for mosquito control, may actually be the cause. Pyriproxifen is an analog of juvenile hormone, which corresponds in mammals to regulatory molecules including retinoic acid, a vitamin A metabolite, with which it has cross-reactivity and whose application during development causes microcephaly. Methoprene, another juvenile hormone analog approved as an insecticide has metabolites that bind to the retinoid X receptor, and causes developmental disorders in mammals. Isotretinoin is another example of a retinoid causing microcephaly in human babies via activation of the retinoid X receptor. Moreover, tests of pyriproxyfen by the manufacturer, Sumitomo, widely quoted as giving no evidence for developmental toxicity, actually found some evidence for such an effect, including low brain mass and arhinencephaly--incomplete formation of the anterior cerebral hemispheres--in rat pups. Finally, the pyriproxyfen use in Brazil is unprecedented--it has never before been applied to a water supply on such a scale. Claims that it is not being used in Recife, the epicenter of microcephaly cases, do not distinguish the metropolitan area of Recife, where it is widely used, and the municipality, where it is not. Given this combination of information we strongly recommend that the use of pyriproxyfen in Brazil be suspended pending further investigation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1959/', ['Toxicology', 'Pharmacology', 'Public Health', 'Science Policy'], [u'New England Complex Systems Institute', u'Department of Biology, Duke University']]
[u'Delivering a medical school elective with massive open online course (MOOC) technology', ['Robert Robinson'], u'2016-04-14', u'Introduction: The educational technology of massive open online courses (MOOCs) has been successfully applied in a wide variety of disciplines and are an intense focus of educational research at this time. Educators are now looking to MOOC technology as a means to improve professional medical education, but very little is known about how medical MOOCs compare with traditional content delivery. Methods: A retrospective analysis of the course evaluations for the Medicine as a Business elective by fourth year medical students at Southern Illinois University School of Medicine (SIU-SOM) for the 2012-2015 academic years was conducted. This course was delivered by small group discussions for 2012-2014 and delivered via MOOC technology in 2015. Learner ratings were compared between the two course delivery methods using routinely collected course evaluations. Results: Course enrollment has ranged from 6-19 students per year in the 2012-2015 academic years. Student evaluations of the course are favorable in the areas of effective teaching, accurate course objectives, meeting personal learning objectives, recommending the course to other students, and overall when rated on a 5 point Likert scale. Ratings show no statistically significant difference between the small group or MOOC format versions of the course (p = 1.00 for all comparisons). Discussion: Students found this elective to be an effective means of meeting their personal learning objectives when delivered in a small group discussion format or by using MOOC technology. The primary advantage of this new course format is flexibility of time and place for learners, allowing them to complete the course objectives when convenient for them. The course evaluations indicate this is a change that is acceptable to the target audience. Conclusions:  This study shows that learner evaluations of a fourth year medical school elective course do not significantly differ when delivered in small group discussions or via MOOC technology. This suggests that MOOCs may be a reasonable format to deliver medical school courses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1958/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine']]
[u'Anxiolytic effects of fluoxetine and nicotine exposure on exploratory behavior in zebrafish', ['Matthew L Singer', 'Kris Oreschak', 'Zachariah Rhinehart', 'Barrie D Robison'], u'2016-04-14', u'Zebrafish (Danio rerio) have emerged as a popular model for studying pharmacological effects on behavior and anxiety. While there have been numerous studies documenting the anxiolytic and anxiogenic effects of common drugs in zebrafish, many do not report or test for behavioral differences between the sexes. Previous studies of zebrafish have indicated that males and females differ in their behavioral responses to anxiety. In this study, we test for sex-dependent effects of fluoxetine and nicotine. We exposed fish to system water (control), 10 mg/L fluoxetine, or 1 mg/L nicotine for three minutes prior to being subjected to four minutes in an open-field drop test. Video recordings were tracked using ProAnalyst. Fish from both drug treatments reduced swimming speed, increased vertical position, and increased use of the top half of the open field when compared with the control, though fluoxetine had a larger effect on depth related behaviors while nicotine mostly affected swimming speed. A significant sex effect was observed where females swam at a slower and more constant speed than males in all treatments. No interactions between sex and the drugs were observed across the entire study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1718/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Idaho', u'Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Colorado at Boulder']]
[u'Harmine stimulates neurogenesis of human neural cells in vitro', ['Vanja Dakic', 'Renata de Moraes Maciel', 'Hannah Drummond', 'Juliana M Nascimento', 'Pablo Trindade', 'Stevens K Rehen'], u'2016-04-14', u'Harmine is a \u03b2-carboline alkaloid present at highest concentration in the psychotropic plant decoction Ayahuasca. In rodents, classical antidepressants reverse the symptoms of depression by stimulating neuronal proliferation. It has been shown that Ayahuasca presents antidepressant effects in patients with depressive disorder. In the present study, we investigated the effects of harmine in cell cultures containing human neural progenitor cells (hNPCs, 97% nestin-positive) derived from pluripotent stem cells. After 4 days of treatment, the pool of proliferating hNPCs increased by 57%. Harmine has been reported as a potent inhibitor of the dual specificity tyrosine-phosphorylation-regulated kinase (DYRK1A), which regulates cell proliferation and brain development. We tested the effect of analogs of harmine, an inhibitor of DYRK1A (INDY) and an irreversible selective inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO) but not DYRK1A (pargyline). INDY but not pargyline induced proliferation of hNPCs similarly to harmine, suggesting that inhibition of Dyrk1a is a possible mechanism to explain harmine effects upon the proliferation of hNPCs. Harmine also increased dendritic arborization, including total neurite length, number of segments, extremities and nodes in MAP2 positive neurons. Our findings show that harmine enhances neurogenesis of hNPCs in vitro, and suggest a biological activity associated with its antidepressant effects in vivo.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1957/', ['Cell Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro', u"IDOR, D'Or Institute for Research and Education", u'Biochemistry and Tissue Biology, Universidade Estadual de Campinas']]
[u"The universal non-neuronal nature of Parkinson's disease: A theory", ['Andre Valente', 'Altynay Adilbayeva', 'Tursonjan Tokay', 'Albert Rizvanov'], u'2016-04-14', u"Parkinson's disease (PD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders, yet the etiology of the majority of its cases remains unknown. In this article, relevant published evidence is interpreted and integrated into a comprehensive hypothesis on the nature, origin and intercellular mode of propagation of sporadic PD. We propose to characterize sporadic PD as a pathological deviation in the global gene expression program of a cell: the PD expression-state, or PD-state for short. A universal cell-generic state, the PD-state deviation would be particularly damaging in a neuronal context, ultimately leading to neuron death and the ensuing observerd clinical signs. We review why ageing accumulated damage caused by oxidative stress in mitochondria could be the trigger for a primordial cell to shift to the PD-state. We propose that hematopoietic cells could be the first to acquire the PD-state, at hematopoiesis, from the disruption in reactive oxygen species (ROS) homeostasis that arises with age in the hematopoietic stem-cell niche. We argue that cellular ageing is nevertheless unlikely to explain the shift to the PD-state of all the subsequently affected cells in a patient, thus indicating the existence of a distinct mechanism of cellular propagation of the PD-state. We highlight recently published findings on the inter-cellular exchange of mitochondrial DNA and the ability of mitochondrial DNA to modulate the cellular global expression gene state and propose this could form the basis for the inter-cellular transmission of the PD-state.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1314/', ['Cell Biology', 'Neurology'], [u'Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra', u'Institute of Fundamental Medicine and Biology, Kazan Federal University', u'National Laboratory Astana, Nazarbayev University']]
[u'Effects of different concentration of Ca (NO 3)2  on quinoa treated with salinity', ['Hong Yan', 'Fulai Liu'], u'2016-04-14', u'Salinity has some adverse effects on the morphology and physiology in many crops. To alleviate the damages of salinity, the applications of calcium nitrate on quinoa-treated NaCl (Chenopodium quinoa Willd) were investigated under the supported-hydroponic environment. The plants were exposed to 200mM NaCl with 20mM and 150mM Ca (NO  3  )  2  (EC 18.61~37.85 ds\xb7m  -1 and osmotic potential -0.89~-1.71MPa), and sampled for measurements of osmotic potential, stomatal characteristics, and root characteristics. The presence of 200 mM NaCl alone decreased the relative parameters in different degrees. In all treatments, the indexes on stomatal characteristic were decreased with increasing electrical conductivity (EC) levels except for stomatal density. Stomatal conductance decreased more markedly when osmotic potential reached -0.89Mpa. Increasing in stomatal density observed in higher Ca(NO  3  )  2 level (150mM) might be caused by the inhibition of cell division in the epidermis , which was also due to reduction of osmotic potential of the solutions.A similar trend was observed for osmotic potentials in the same tissue, which were deceased with increasing EC of the solutions. Although no significant differences in the all treatments were observed for the average diameter of roots, the beneficial effect of Ca(NO  3  )  2 application at the concentration of 20 mM was significant in projected area, surface area, and volume. The phenomenon showed that moderate reduction in osmotic potential was favorable to cell extension due to maintaining cell turgor pressure. Much lower osmotic potential possibly inhibited cell division of root apical meristem. From the above results, it might be concluded that the effects of Ca(NO 3  )  2 applications depended on the concentration, while the significant differences between the stomata and root morphology represented the tissue-specific as well.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1956/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'School of Life Sciences, Northeast Normal University', u'Faculty of Science, Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Behaviourally-mediated interactions of landscape pattern shape predator-prey dynamics in highly altered landscapes', ['Craig DeMars', 'Greg A Breed', 'Jonathan Potts', 'Robert Serrouya', 'Stan Boutin'], u'2016-04-14', u'Landscape structure plays a fundamental role in shaping predator-prey dynamics, often being a key determinant of predator-prey coexistence. Rapid alteration of landscape structure, however, can lead to changes in predator-prey interactions with the magnitude of such changes dependent upon the scale and intensity of alteration and animal behavioural responses to novel environmental stimuli. In the boreal forests of western Canada, linear features (e.g. roads, seismic lines and pipelines) from industrial activity are a ubiquitous form of landscape alteration and increasing evidence suggests their presence has impacted interactions between wolves (Canis lupus) and boreal caribou (Rangifer tarandus caribou), leading to caribou population declines. Using simulation analyses parameterized by empirical data, we demonstrate how linear features affect the ability of wolves to predate caribou and evaluate how the spatial configuration and density of linear features interacts with animal behaviour to influence caribou-wolf encounter rates. Model outputs yield insights into the spatial requirements of caribou for effectively reducing predation risk and further illustrate behavioural strategies that are theoretically optimal for caribou. We discuss how our spatially explicit modelling of predator-prey encounter rates can inform management actions aimed at minimizing anthropogenic impacts within caribou range as well as in other predator-prey systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1955/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta', u'Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska - Fairbanks', u'School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of Sheffield']]
[u'A review of KDD99 dataset usage in intrusion detection and machine learning between 2010 and 2015', ['Atilla Ozgur', 'Hamit Erdem'], u'2016-04-14', u'Although KDD99 dataset is more than 15 years old, it is still widely used in academic research. To investigate wide usage of this dataset in Machine Learning Research (MLR) and Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS); this study reviews 149 research articles from 65 journals indexed in Science Citation In- dex Expanded and Emerging Sources Citation Index during the last six years (2010\u20132015). If we include papers presented in other indexes and conferences, number of studies would be tripled. The number of published studies shows that KDD99 is the most used dataset in IDS and machine learning areas, and it is the de facto dataset for these research areas. To show recent usage of KDD99 and the related sub-dataset (NSL-KDD) in IDS and MLR, the following de- scriptive statistics about the reviewed studies are given: main contribution of articles, the applied algorithms, compared classification algorithms, software toolbox usage, the size and type of the used dataset for training and test- ing, and classification output classes (binary, multi-class). In addition to these statistics, a checklist for future researchers that work in this area is provided.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1954/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Computer Networks and Communications', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'Electrical Engineering, Ba\u015fkent University']]
[u'Longitudinal and seasonal succession of algal periphyton colonization in lowland river (Tundzha River Part of Turkey)', ['Burak Oterler'], u'2016-04-14', u'The aim of this paper is to determine and compare the environmental factors controlling longitudinal colonisation of periphytic algae in agricultural and urbanization effects of a lowland river, the Tundzha River, located in Turkish Tunca. To investigate the effect of the environmental factors on periphyton colonization at the river, 6 stations were selected and samples were collected between April 2012 and March 2013. Canonical correspondence analyses have been applied to clarify relationships between environmental variables and periphytic algae. During the study, the Shannon-Wiener diversity index (H\u2032) varied from 1.62 to 3.91. The phytoplankton biovolume was positively related to pH, temperature, salinity, chlorophyll- a and nutrients, and was negatively correlated with dissolved oxygen, turbidity, and silicate. Out of the 5 divisions and of 73 identified species of phytoplankton, the diatoms, namely Fragilaria ulna, Cymbella tumida, Cocconeis placentula, Gomphonema acuminatum and Cymbella cystula were found to be dominant. In addition to these species, the biovolumes of filamentous diatom Melosira varians, filamentous blue-green algae Oscillatoria limosa, and placcoderm desmids Cosmarium botrytis were determined to be at high levels during the year. The euglenoid blooms in St.5 showed many times during the study period.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1953/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Biology, Trakya University']]
[u'The ontogenetic transformation of the mesosaurid tarsus: a contribution to the origin of the primitive amniotic astragalus', ['Graciela Pineiro', 'Pablo Nunez Demarco', 'Melitta D Meneghel'], u'2016-04-14', u'The hypotheses about the origin of the primitive amniotic tarsus are very speculative. Early studies argued that the origin of the astragalus, one of the largest proximal bones in the tarsus of basal amniotes, was produced by either the fusion of two, three, or even four of the original tarsal bones, the intermedium, the tibiale and the proximal centralia (c4 and c3), or that the intermedium alone transforms into the primitive astragalus. More recent studies have shown that the structure of the tarsus in Captorhinus supports the former hypothesis about a fusion of the intermedium, the tibiale, the proximal centrale (c4) and eventually c3, producing a purportedly multipartite structure of the amniotic astragalus, but the issue remained contentious. Very well preserved tarsi of the Early Permian aquatic amniote Mesosaurus tenuidens Gervais, 1864-1865, which represent the most complete ontogenetic succession known for a basal amniote (the other exceptional one is provided by the Late Permian diapsid Hovasaurus boulei Piveteau, 1926), suggest that there is more than one ossification center for the astragalus and that these fuse during late embryonic stages or maybe early after birth. A non-hatched Mesosaurus in an advanced stage of development shows that the tarsus is represented by a single bone, most probably the astragalus, which seems to be formed by the suturing of three bones, which we interpret as being the intermedium, the tibiale, which could have already integrated the c4 in an earlier stage of the development, and the c3. An amniote-like tarsal structure is observed in very basal Carboniferous and Permian tetrapods such as Proterogyrinus, Gephyrostegus, the diadectids Diadectes and Orobates, some microsaurs like Tuditanus and Pantylus, and possibly Westlothiana, taxa that were all considered as true amniotes in their original descriptions. Therefore, the structure of the amniotic tarsus, including the configuration of the proximal series formed by the astragalus and the calcaneum, typically a pair of enlarged bones, could have been established well before the first recognized amniote walked on Earth. Accordingly, the tarsus of these taxa does not constitute specialized convergences that appeared in unrelated groups, they might be instead, part of a transformation series that involves taxa closely related to the early amniotes as some hypotheses have suggested.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1952/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Instituto de Ciencias Geol\xf3gicas. Igu\xe1 4225. CP. 11400, Facultad de Ciencias', u'Laboratorio de Sistem\xe1tica e Historia Natural de Vertebrados, IECA, Facultad de Ciencias, Igu\xe1 4225, CP. 11400']]
[u'Saving Waves: BioAcoustica progress report 1', ['Edward Baker'], u'2016-04-12', u'This report details work on the BioAcoustica project up to the end of March 2016. Functionality and datasets currently available are described and ongoing work is listed. Usage statistics are provided and future plans are presented. Outputs of the project are listed in appendices including a list of peer-reviewed papers generated by the project and peer-reviewed papers that have deposited their bioacoustic data in BioAcoustica. In addition a list of species which are represented in the BioAcoustica database is provided.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1948/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum']]
[u'Crossing methods and cultivation conditions for rapid production of segregating populations in three grain amaranth species', ['Markus G Stetter', 'Leo Zeitler', 'Adrian Steinhaus', 'Karoline Kroener', 'Michelle Biljecki', 'Karl J Schmid'], u'2016-04-12', u'Background: Grain amaranths (Amaranthus sp) have been cultivated for thousands of years in Central and South America. Their grains are of high nutritional value, but the low yield needs to be increased by selection of superior genotypes from genetically diverse breeding populations. Amaranths are adapted to harsh conditions and can be cultivated on marginal lands although little is known about their physiology. The development of controlled growing conditions and efficient crossing methods is important for research on and improvement of this ancient crop. Grain amaranth was domesticated in the Americas and is highly self-fertilizing with a large inflorescence consisting of thousands of very small flowers. We evaluated three different crossing methods (open pollination, hot water emasculation and hand emasculation) for their efficiency in amaranth and validated them with genetic markers. Results: We identified cultivation conditions that allow an easy control of flowering time by manipulating day length manipulation and achieved flowering times of four weeks and generation times of two months. All three different crossing methods successfully produced hybrid F1 offspring, but with different success rates. Open pollination had the lowest (10%) and hand emasculation the highest success rate (74%). Hot water emasculation showed an intermediate success rate (26%) with a maximum of 94% success. It is simple to perform and suitable for a more large-scale production of hybrids. We further evaluated 11 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers and found that they were sufficient to validate all crosses of the genotypes used in this study for intra- and interspecific crosses. Conclusions: Despite its very small flowers, crosses in amaranth can be carried out efficiently and evaluated with inexpensive SNP markers. Suitable growth conditions strongly reduce the generation time and allow the control of plant height, flowering time and seed production. In combination, this enables the rapid production of segregating populations which makes amaranth an attractive model for basic plant research but also facilitates further the improvement of this ancient crop by plant breeding.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1951/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Genetics'], [u'Institute of Plant Breeding, Seed Science and Population Genetics, University of Hohenheim']]
[u'Predicting trophic discrimination factor using Bayesian inference and phylogenetic, ecological and physiological data. DEsIR: Discrimination Estimation in R.', ['Kevin Healy', 'Sean B.A Kelly', 'Thomas Guillerme', 'Richard Inger', 'Stuart Bearhop', 'Andrew L Jackson'], u'2016-04-12', u'1. Stable isotope analysis is a widely used tool for the reconstruction and interpretation of animal diets and trophic relationships. Analytical tools have improved the robustness of inferring the relative contribution of different prey sources to an animal\u2019s diet by accounting for many of the sources of variation in isotopic data. One major source of uncertainty is Trophic Discrimination Factor (TDF), the change in isotopic signatures between consumers\u2019 tissues and their food sources. This parameter can have a profound impact on model predictions, but often, it is not feasible to estimate a species\u2019 TDF value and so researchers often use aggregated or taxon level estimates, an assumption that in turn has major implications for the interpretation of subsequent analyses.\n2. We collected extensive carbon (\u03b413C) and nitrogen (\u03b415N) TDF data on mammals and birds from published literature. We then used a Bayesian linear modelling approach to determine if, and to what extent, variation in TDF values can be attributed to a species\u2019 ecology, physiology, phylogenetic relationships and experimental variation. Finally, we developed a Bayesian imputation approach to estimate unknown TDF values and compared the accuracy of this tool using a series of cross-validation tests.\n3. Our results show that, for birds and mammals, TDF values are influenced by phylogeny, tissue type sampled, diet of consumer, isotopic signature of food source, and the error associated with the measurement of TDF within a species. Furthermore, our cross-validation tests determined that, our tool can (i) produce accurate estimates of TDF values with a mean distance of 0.2 \u2030 from observed TDF values, and (ii) provide an estimate of the precision associated with these estimates, with species presence in the data allowing for a reduced level of uncertainty.\n4. By incorporating various sources of variation and reflecting the levels of uncertainty associated with TDF estimates our novel tool will contribute to more accurate and honest reconstructions and interpretations of animal diets and trophic interactions. This tool can be extended readily to include other taxa and sources of variation as data becomes available. To facilitate this, we provide a step-by-step guide and code for this tool: Discrimination Estimation in R (DEsiR)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1950/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Zoology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Zoology, School of Natural Sciences, University of Dublin, Trinity College', u'Trinity Centre for Biodiversity Research, University of Dublin, Trinity College', u'Silwood Park Campus, Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London', u'Centre for Ecology and Conservation, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter']]
[u'What can the inverse relationship between sex ratios and calf:cow ratios, tell us about compensatory responses to hunting, in moose populations exposed to wolf predation?', ['Doug Heard'], u'2016-04-12', u'Moose populations with low hunting pressure tend to have high sex ratios and low calf:cow ratios and hunted ones have low sex ratios and high calf:cow ratios. What causes this inverse relationship? I suggest that when hunting is male-biased, which it is in almost all populations; 1) the number of 10 year old or older moose and the overall sex ratio is reduced, 2) the number of wolves declines because old moose are more vulnerable to predation by wolves than prime age animals and wolf numbers are linearly related to the number of old moose, and 3) the fraction of moose calves in the population and the calf:cow ratio increases because with fewer wolves, calf survival increases. This process could partially or completely compensate for moose hunting mortality in moose-wolf ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1949/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Tithonus Wildlife Research']]
[u'Phylogenetics and population genetics of Plotosus canius (Siluriformes: Plotosidae) from Malaysian coastal waters', ['Nima Khalili Samani', 'Yuzine Esa', 'S.M Nurul Amin', 'Natrah Fatin Mohd Ikhsan'], u'2016-04-11', u'Plotosus canius (Hamilton, 1822) is a significant marine species in Malaysia from nutritional and commercial perspectives. Despite numerous fundamental researches on biological characteristics of P.canius, there are various concerns on the level of population differentiation, genomic structure, and the level of genetic variability among their populations due to deficiency of genetic-based studies. Deficiency on basic contexts such as stock identification, phylogenetic relationship and population genetic structure would negatively impact their sustainable conservation. Hence, this study was conducted to characterize the genetic structure of P.canius for the first time through the application of mitochondrial Cytochrome Oxidase I (COI) gene, cross amplification of Tandanus tandanus microsatellites, and a total of 117 collected specimens across five selected populations of Malaysia. The experimental results of the mitochondrial analysis revealed that the haplotype diversity and nucleotide diversity varied from 0.395 to 0.771 and 0.033 to 0.65 respectively. Moreover, the statistical analysis of microsatellites addressed a considerable heterozygote insufficiency in all populations, with average observed heterozygosity (H0) value of 0.2168, which was lower than the standard heterozygosity in marine populations (H0= 0.79). This alongside the high Fis values estimation, high pairwise differentiation among populations and low within population variations are supposed to be associated with small sample size, and inbreeding system. Besides, the significant finding of this study was the sharing of common haplotype KR086940 at which reflects a historical genetic connectivity between Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo populations due to the geological history of Southeast Asia during Pleistocene era. Demographic analyses showed that all populations were in equilibrium state with no significant evidence of population expansion. To put it briefly, the current study has managed to provide an initial genomic database toward understanding of the genetic characterization, phylogenetic, molecular diversification and population structure in P.canius, and should be necessary highlighted for appropriate management and conservation of species. Though, further studies must be carried out involving more geographical and sampling sites, larger population size per site, and utilization of species specific microsatellites loci.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1640/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Aquaculture, Faculty of Agriculture, Universiti Putra Malaysia']]
[u'Boa: a link between worlds', ['Stephen Romansky', 'Sadegh Charmchi', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2016-04-11', u'The business models of software/platform as a service have contributed to developers dependence on the Internet. Developers can rapidly point each other and consumers to the newest software changes with the power of the hyper link. But, developers are not limited to referencing software changes to one another through the web. Other shared hypermedia might include links to: Stack Overflow, Twitter, and issue trackers. This work explores the software traceability of Uniform Resource Locators (URLs) which software developers leave in commit messages and software repositories. URLs are easily extracted from commit messages and source code. Therefore, it would be useful to researchers if URLs provide additional insight on project development. To assess traceability, manual topic labelling is evaluated against automated topic labelling on URL data sets. This work also shows differences between URL data collected from commit messages versus URL data collected from source code. As well, this work explores outlying software projects with many URLs in case these projects do not provide meaningful software relationship information. Results from manual topic labelling show promise under evaluation while automated topic labelling did not yield precise topics. Further investigation of manual and automated topic analysis would be useful.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1947/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Comments on "Researcher bias: The use of machine learning in software defect prediction"', ['Chakkrit Tantithamthavorn', 'Shane McIntosh', 'Ahmed E Hassan', 'Kenichi Matsumoto'], u'2016-04-11', u'Shepperd et al. find that the reported performance of a defect prediction model shares a strong relationship with the group of researchers who construct the models. In this paper, we perform an alternative investigation of Shepperd et al.\u2019s data. We observe that (a) research group shares a strong association with other explanatory variables (i.e., the dataset and metric families that are used to build a model); (b) the strong association among these explanatory variables makes it difficult to discern the impact of the research group on model performance; and (c) after mitigating the impact of this strong association, we find that the research group has a smaller impact than the metric family. These observations lead us to conclude that the relationship between the researcher group and the performance of a defect prediction model are more likely due to the tendency of researchers to reuse experimental components (e.g., datasets and metrics). We recommend that researchers experiment with a broader selection of datasets and metrics to combat any potential bias in their results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1260/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Graduate School of Information Science, Nara Institute of Science and Technology', u'Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, McGill University', u"School of Computing, Queen's University"]]
[u'Reporting quality of randomized and non-randomized controlled trial abstracts from chicken research', ['Peerapol Sukon', 'Saijai Kongpechr', 'Sakolwan Bubpahou', 'Natchaya Boonpian', 'Natyaon Manasrisureeyun'], u'2016-04-09', u'In publication of a controlled trial article from health science research, the abstract is an important part that readers usually read first and then decide whether to read the whole article; therefore, information provided in the abstract should be adequate. The CONSORT (consolidated standards of reporting trials) for Abstracts checklist has been developed and used as a guideline for authors to prepare their manuscripts. This checklist has also been used as a tool to evaluate published abstracts. The objectives of this study were to evaluate reporting quality of randomized controlled trial (RCT) and non-RCT abstracts from chicken research and to determine factors associated with the reporting quality. We searched PubMed for RCT and non-RCT abstracts involving chicken research published between 2006 and 2015. The included abstracts were evaluated using the modified CONSORT for Abstracts checklist. The primary outcome was a mean overall quality score (OQS), which, for each abstract, was a sum of items reported in the modified CONSORT for Abstracts checklist. In addition, some pre-specified factors were evaluated for their association with the reporting quality using simple and multiple linear regression analyses. A total of 949 abstracts (n=262 for RCT and n=687 for non-RCT abstracts) were included and evaluated. Although OQS was significantly greater in RCT than in non-RCT abstracts (mean \xb1 SD, 6.7 \xb1 0.9 vs 3.3 \xb1 1.1; P-value<0.001), both mean scores were still less than half of the full score of 15. Only 2 items\u2014objective and conclusions\u2014were adequately reported (>80%) in both types of the abstracts. Items concerning trial design, participants, interventions, randomization, and number randomized were adequately reported only in the RCT abstracts. In contrast, items concerning the study as randomized in the title, clearly defined primary outcome, blinding, numbers analyzed, estimated effect size and its precision for the primary outcome, trial registration, and funding were not reported or reported less than 5% in both RCT and non-RCT abstracts. In this study, 4 factors\u2014year of publication, number of trials reported, number of experimental groups reported, and sample size reported\u2014were associated with OQS. That is, abstracts with higher OQS were published more recently, reported a single trial rather than multiple trials, reported number of experimental groups rather than not reported, and reported sample size rather than not reported. These factors explained about 37.5% of the variance of OQS. In conclusion, reporting quality of RCT and non-RCT abstracts from chicken research was suboptimal. Therefore, efforts especially the development of specific guidelines based on the CONSORT for Abstracts checklist should be made for reporting controlled trial abstracts from chicken research to improve the transparency, completeness, and sufficiently detailed of reporting.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1945/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Clinical Trials', 'Evidence Based Medicine'], [u'Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Khon Kaen University', u'Research Group for Preventive Technology in Livestock, Khon Kaen University', u'Poultry Health Research Group, Khon Kaen University']]
[u'Estimation of wolf population density using spatial capture-recapture: refining methods for monitoring cryptic species', ['Gretchen H Roffler', 'Jason N Waite', 'Rodney W Flynn', 'Kristian R Larson'], u'2016-04-09', u'Wolves (Canis lupus) in Southeast Alaska have been proposed for listing under the U.S. Endangered Species Act first in 1993, and more recently in 2011. Reports of declining wolf populations sparked concern, in addition to high rates of logging and broad-scale succession patterns predicted to negatively impact Sitka black-tailed deer (Odocoileus hemionus sitkensis), the primary ungulate prey species of wolves in Southeast Alaska. Given the recurring interest of wolf viability in the region, and in order to manage wolves and their prey sustainably, it is imperative to obtain regular and reliable population estimates. However, monitoring wolves in temperate rainforests is challenging because the landscape obscures visibility and lowers success of traditional methods such as aerial surveys and radio collar mark-recapture. We used hair snares to collect DNA samples and spatially-explicit capture-recapture (SECR) models to estimate fall wolf density during 2012\u20132015 on northcentral Prince of Wales Island (POW), Alaska. We incorporated covariates including sex, behavioral responses, and site-specific changes in effectiveness of detection probability by fitting hybrid mixture models to the data. We also incorporated into our models landscape variables including forest habitats in various management conditions and succession stages to relate to wolf habitat selection. We concurrently implemented a traditional approach for comparison to the DNA-based SECR method using radiocollared wolf data to estimate population abundance with minimum counts and the size of wolf packs and pack territories. The results of the DNA-based SECR method proved to be more reliable, efficient, cost-effective, and robust than the traditional method, which was sensitive to violations of model assumptions. Our efforts to improve SECR density estimate precision by increasing the hair sampling intensity and area resulted in more wolf hair detections and redetections, and increased the number of unique wolves redetected. Based on multiple lines of evidence, we report a decline in wolf population abundance over the past 2 decades in northcentral POW. We conclude that DNA-based SECR is an effective tool for regular population monitoring, as is required in situations of elevated concern for the persistence of a population, and may simultaneously provide information on heterogeneous landscape use, an important wildlife management consideration in fragmented forests.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1946/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Division of Wildlife Conservation, Alaska Department of Fish & Game']]
[u'Managing wolves to benefit woodland caribou populations in northeast British Columbia: what we know and what we need', ['Steven F Wilson'], u'2016-04-09', u'Predator-prey systems are complex and attempts to manage them to benefit woodland caribou populations have generated mixed results. Despite limited success, calls for wolf control continue because of the urgent need to reverse the decline of woodland caribou populations, and because there are so few management options available that have the potential to demonstrate immediate benefits. I present the results of a policy analysis that reviews the potential role of wolf control within the ecological, social and political context of northeast British Columbia (BC). The scale and scope of a wolf control program is ultimately limited by the economic and ethical support of the public, while the program\u2019s effectiveness is governed by the conditional dependencies among the major factors effecting woodland caribou declines. The policy analysis suggests that the contribution of wolf control programs to caribou conservation efforts in northeast BC will be limited, but that significant uncertainties in the causal pathways resulting in caribou population declines limit our ability to propose alternative management policies that have a high confidence of success.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1942/', ['Ecology'], [u'EcoLogic Research']]
[u'Compensation and density dependence', ['Mark S. Boyce', 'Evelyn H. Merrill'], u'2016-04-09', u'Compensatory mortality is a key concept in sustainable resource development and predator-prey theory. Two driving mechanisms underlie compensatory mortality: seasonality and density dependence. Indeed, density dependence is fundamental to being able to achieve a sustainable harvest policy and is also central to stabilizing predator-prey systems. An intuitive view of compensatory mortality promoted by Paul Errington is the notion of an annual doomed surplus of recruits produced each year that can be harvested or killed by predators with no consequence to the spring breeding densities. An interaction between density dependence and harvest or predation mortality can result in overcompensation or the Hydra Effect where survival and/or population size is actually increased by low to moderate removals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1944/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta']]
[u'Hierarchical organization of a Sardinian sand dune plant community', ['Valentina Cusseddu', 'Giulia Ceccherelli', 'Mark Bertness'], u'2016-04-09', u'Coastal sand dunes have attracted the attention of plant ecologists for over a century, but they have largely relied on correlations to explain dune plant community organization. We experimentally examined longstanding hypotheses that sand binding, interspecific interactions, abiotic factors and seedling recruitment are drivers of sand dune plant community structure in Sardinia, Italy. Removing foundation species from the fore, middle and back dune habitats over 3 years led to erosion and habitat loss on the fore dune and limited plant recovery that increased with dune elevation. Reciprocal species removals in all zones suggested that interspecific competition is common, but that dominance is transient, particularly due to sand burial disturbance in the middle dune. A fully factorial 2-year physical factor manipulation of water, nutrient availability and substrate stability revealed no significant proximate response to these abiotic factors in any dune zone. In the fore and middle dune, plant seeds are trapped under adult plants during seed germination, and seedling survivorship and growth generally increase with dune height in spite of increased herbivory in the back dune. Sand and seed erosion lead to limited seed recruitment on the fore dune while high summer temperatures and allelopathy lead to competitive dominance of woody plants in the back dune. Our results suggest that Sardinian sand dune plant communities are hierarchically organized, structured by sand binding foundation species on the fore dune, sand burial in the middle dune and increasingly successful seedling recruitment, growth and competitive dominance in the back dune.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1943/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Science for Nature and Environmental Resources, University of Sassari', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown University']]
[u'Australian black field crickets show changes in neural gene expression associated with socially-induced morphological, life-history, and behavioral plasticity', ['Michael Kasumovic', 'Zhiliang Chen', 'Marc R Wilkins'], u'2016-04-09', u'Background: Ecological and evolutionary model organisms have provided extensive insight into the ecological triggers, adaptive benefits, and evolution of life-history driven developmental plasticity. Despite this, we still have a poor understanding of the underlying genetic changes that occur during shifts towards different developmental trajectories. The goal of this study is to determine whether we can identify underlying gene expression patterns that can describe the different life-history trajectories individuals follow in response to social cues of competition. To do this, we use the Australian black field cricket (Teleogryllus commodus), a species with sex-specific developmental trajectories moderated by the density and quality of calls heard during immaturity. In this study, we manipulated the social information males and females could hear by rearing individuals in either calling or silent treatments. We next used RNA-Seq to develop a reference transcriptome to study changes in brain gene expression at two points prior to sexual maturation. Results: We show accelerated development in both sexes when exposed to calling; changes were also seen in growth, lifespan, and reproductive effort. Functional relationships between genes and phenotypes were apparent from ontological enrichment analysis. We demonstrate that increased phenotypic expression was often associated with the expression of a greater number of genes with similar effect, thus providing a suite of candidate genes for future research in this and other invertebrate organisms. Conclusions: Our results provide interesting insight into the genomic underpinnings of developmental plasticity. We highlight the relationship between genes of known effect and behavioral and phenotypic traits that are under strong sexual selection in Teleogryllus commodus. We also demonstrate the variation in suites of genes associated with different developmental trajectories. Our results provide the opportunity for a genomic exploration of other evolutionary theories such as condition dependence and sexual conflict.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1941/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics'], [u'Ecology and Evolution Research Centre, UNSW Australia', u'Systems Biology Initiative, UNSW Australia', u'School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, UNSW Australia']]
[u'Avian management at Vancouver International Airport: Painting a landscape of fear with trained raptors', ['David Bradbeer', 'Kristine Kirkby', 'Gillian Radcliffe'], u'2016-04-09', u'Vancouver International Airport (CYVR) is located in the Fraser Delta and provides an enticing haven for migratory and wintering birds seeking refuge, compromising aircraft safety and operations. To manage this risk, the Vancouver Airport Authority has invested in innovative and adaptive strategies to reduce bird strikes, including an active daily falconry program conducted during the winter months, when local shorebird and waterfowl populations swell. This presentation discusses the falconry program, initiated in 2011, and the results on one primary target species in particular, the Dunlin (Calidris alpina). The behavior and habitat use of prey species is strongly influenced by predation risk. The landscape at CYVR comprises a complex interplay of multiple species of both predator and prey. Wild raptors are diverse and relatively numerous, and they interact with one another and with a wide range of prey species. The dynamics of these interactions are strongly influenced by an ever-\xad\u2010changing palette of managed airside habitats, the vagaries of weather, airport operations (including bird control activities), and climate and landscape level changes. Manipulation of these dynamics \u2013 through, for example, effectively increasing the apparent density and hunting activities of a natural local predator, could facilitate the management of problem avian species in and around the airport. Dunlins are the most abundant wintering shorebirds locally, and a long-\xad\u2010time problem species at the airport. Traditional hazing with pyrotechnics and auditory harassment, adequate for many problem species, proved relatively ineffective in deterring Dunlin from seeking refuge on the airfield, especially during high tides and inclement weather. It was our hypothesis that we should be able to influence the behavior of winter resident Dunlins by increasing perceived predation risk. To effect this, trained falcons, primarily Peregrines (Falco peregrinus) -\xad\u2010 a natural predator on Dunlins -\xad\u2010 are actively flown on the airfield daily to paint a landscape of fear for the shorebirds. The relative success of the program to date is strongly supported by a decline in strikes involving Dunlins -\xad\u2010 quantified by mass -\xad\u2010 as well as by more anecdotal observations of related behavioural changes. Since implementation of the program, the cross-\xad\u2010wind runway, historically closed for much of the winter due to shorebird hazard, has remained open and ready for use during poor weather conditions when it is most needed. Active management using trained predators helps reduce the need for more lethal forms of avian control. Direct and indirect influences on the local predator-\xad\u2010prey systems, both within and beyond the boundaries of the airport, are poorly understood. Future exploration and quantification of behavioural adaptations and habitat management, in relation to dynamics of Dunlin populations, may assist in further reducing the occurrence of aircraft / shorebird collisions at Vancouver International Airport, to the benefit of both human and avian species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1940/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Vancouver Airport Authority', u'Pacific Northwest Raptors']]
[u'What Box: a task for assessing language lateralisation in young children', ['Nicholas A Badcock', 'Rachael Spooner', 'Jessica Hofmann', 'Atlanta J Flitton', 'Scott Elliott', 'Lisa Kurylowicz', 'Louise M Lavrencic', 'Heather M Payne', 'Georgina K Holt', 'Anneka Holden', 'Owen F Churches', 'Mark J Kohler', 'Hannah AD Keage'], u'2016-04-09', u'The assessment of active language lateralisation in infants and toddlers is challenging. It requires an imaging tool that is unintimidating, quick to setup, and robust to movement, in addition to an engaging and cognitively simple procedure that elicits language processing. Functional Transcranial Doppler Ultrasound (fTCD) offers a suitable technique and here we report on a suitable method to elicit active language production in young children. The 34-second \u2018What Box\u2019 trial presents an animated face \u2018searching\u2019 for an object. The face \u2018finds\u2019 a box that opens to reveal an object, which may be labelled spontaneously, in response to a \u201cWhat\u2019s this?\u201d prompt, or in response to the object label. What Box conducted with 95 children (1 to 5 years-of-age, completing a median of 7 trials), who were left-lateralised on average. The task was validated (\u03c1 = 0.4) against the gold standard Word Generation task in a group of older adults (n = 65, 60 to 85 years-of-age, median of 24 trials). Existing methods for assessing lateralisation of active language production have been used with 4-year-old children while passive listening has been conducted with sleeping 6-month-olds. This is the first active method to be successfully employed with infants, toddlers, and pre-schoolers, and show good correspondence to Word Generation in older adults.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1939/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Cognitive Science, Macquarie University', u'School of Psychology, Social Work and Social Policy, University of South Australia', u'ESRC Deafness, Cognition, and Language Research Centre, University College London, University of London', u'Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London, University of London', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Brain and Cognition Laboratory, Flinders University of South Australia']]
[u'Does ecophysiology mediate reptile responses to fire regimes? Evidence from Iberian lizards', ['Catarina C Ferreira', 'Xavier Santos', 'Miguel A. Carretero'], u'2016-04-09', u'Background. Reptiles are sensitive to habitat disturbance induced by wildfires but species frequently show opposing responses. Functional causes of such variability have been scarcely explored. In the northernmost limit of the Mediterranean bioregion, lizard species of Mediterranean affinity (Psammodromus algirus and Podarcis guadarramae) increase in abundance in burnt areas whereas Atlantic species (Lacerta schreiberi and Podarcis bocagei) decrease. Timon lepidus, the largest Mediterranean lizard in the region, show mixed responses depending on the locality and fire history. We tested if such interspecific differences are of functional nature, namely, if lizard ecophysiological traits may determine their response to fire. Based on the variation in habitat structure between burnt and unburnt sites, we hypothesise that Mediterranean species increasing density in open habitats promoted by frequent fire regimes should be more thermophile and suffer lower water losses than Atlantic species. Methods. We submitted 6-10 adult males of the five species to standard experiments for assessing preferred body temperatures (Tp) and evaporative water loss rates (EWL), and examined the variation among species and along time by means of repeated-measures AN(C)OVAs. Results. Results only partially supported our initial expectations, since the medium-sized P. algirus clearly attained higher Tp and lower EWL. The two small wall lizards (P. bocagei and P. guadarramae) displayed low Tp and high EWL while the two large green lizards (T. lepidus and L. schreiberi) displayed intermediate values for both parameters. Discussion. The predicted differences according to the biogeographic affinities within each pair were not fully confirmed. We conclude that ecophysiology may help to understand functional reptile responses to fire but other biological traits are also to be considered.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1938/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Departamento de Biologia, Faculdade de Ci\xeancias da Universidade do Porto', u'CIBIO Research Centre in Biodiversity and Genetic Resources, InBIO, Universidade do Porto']]
[u'Delineating flood prone areas using a statistical approach', ['Ivan Marchesini', 'Mauro Rossi', 'Paola Salvati', 'Marco Donnini', 'Simone Sterlacchini', 'Fausto Guzzetti'], u'2016-04-08', u'Floods are frequent and widespread in Italy and pose a severe risk for the population. Local administrations commonly use flow propagation models to delineate the flood prone areas. These modeling approaches require a detail geo-environmental data knowledge, intensive calculation and long computational times. Conversely, statistical methods can be used to asses flood hazard over large areas, or to extend the flood hazard zonation to the portion of the river networks where hydraulic models have still not been applied or can be applied with difficulties. In this paper, we describe a statistical approach to prepare flood hazard maps for the whole of Italy. The proposed method is based on a multivariate machine learning algorithm calibrated using in input flood hazard maps delineated by the local authorities and terrain elevation data. The preliminary results obtained in several major Italian catchments indicate good performances of the statistical algorithm in matching the training data. Results are promising giving the possibility to obtain reliable delineations of flood prone areas obtained in the rest of the Italian territory.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1937/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Research Institute for Geo-Hydrological Protection, CNR', u'Institute for the Dynamics of Environmetal Processes, CNR']]
[u'Gene expression profile of sodium channel subunits in the anterior cingulate cortex during experimental paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain in mice', ['Willias Masocha'], u'2016-04-07', u'Paclitaxel, a chemotherapeutic agent, causes neuropathic pain whose supraspinal pathophysiology is not fully understood. Dysregulation of sodium channel expression, studied mainly in the periphery and spinal cord level, contributes to the pathogenesis of neuropathic pain. We examined gene expression of sodium channel subunits by real time PCR in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) at day 7 post first administration of paclitaxel, when mice had developed paclitaxel-induced thermal hyperalgesia. The ACC was chosen because increased activity in the ACC has been observed during neuropathic pain. In the ACC of control animals the Ct values for Nav1.4, Nav1.5, Nav1.7, Nav1.8 and Nav1.9 were above 30 and/or not detectable in some samples. Thus, comparison in mRNA expression between control and paclitaxel treated animals was done for Nav1.1, Nav1.2, Nav1.3, Nav1.6, Nax as well as Nav\u03b21-Nav\u03b24. Paclitaxel treatment significantly increased the mRNA expression of Nav1.1, Nav1.2, Nav1.6 and Nax, but not Nav1.3, sodium channel alpha subunits compared to vehicle-treated controls. Amongst the sodium channel beta subunits treatment with paclitaxel significantly increased the expression of Nav\u03b21 and Nav\u03b23, but not Nav\u03b22 and Nav\u03b24, compared to vehicle-treated controls. These findings suggest that during PINP there is differential upregulation of sodium channels in the ACC, which might contribute to the increased neuronal activity observed in the area during neuropathic pain.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1936/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of  Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kuwait University']]
[u'NMR. Issues in configuration determination', ['Olga Staszewska-Krajewska'], u'2016-04-07', u'It is well known that the biological properties of compounds are directly related to the configuration of their stereogenic centers. Therefore, the determination of the compound spatial structure, including its configuration, is crucial for better understanding of the mode of action of bioactive compounds and the design of new drugs. The nuclear Overhauser effect has been shown to be highly useful in NMR spectroscopy for characterizing and refining organic chemical structures. However, the results are not always conclusive. During the presentation the most common problems associated with the acquisition and interpretation of NOE data will be discussed. Other alternative measurement parameters (chemical shifts and coupling constants 3JH-H), which are usually neglected when assigning configuration, will be presented. Also RDS (residuel dipolar coupling) measurements, that are an alternative to NOE measurements, will be briefly explained. The second part of the presentation will be devoted to determining the relative configuration of \u03b2-lactams. Recently we have found that the assignment of relative configuration at the bridgehead carbon atom of bicyclic carbapenams can be easily achieved by analyzing chemical shifts of the geminal protons of the methylene group at the C-3 carbon atom. This observation can be attributed to the influence of the anisotropy of the neighboring carbonyl group and can be easily correlated with the configuration at the bridgehead carbon atom. The study showed that the proposed simple relationship can also be used for other azabicyclic compounds.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1935/', ['Biophysics', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Institute of Organic Chemistry PAS']]
[u'Future population trends and drivers of change for Alexander Archipelago wolves on and near Prince of Wales Island, Alaska', ['Sophie L Gilbert', 'Trevor Haynes', 'Mark S Lindberg', 'David Albert', 'Michelle Kissling', 'David K Person'], u'2016-04-07', u'Background. The Alexander Archipelago wolf, inhabiting the coastal temperate rainforest of North America, was recently evaluated for protection under the U.S. Endangered Species Act, but ultimately was not listed. Stressors thought to be impacting the population include about habitat alteration from industrial timber harvest and subsequent declines in prey (deer), increased human-caused mortality, and climate change. Methods. To evaluate how these factors likely will affect future abundance of wolves and deer, we constructed a model linking wolf and deer population dynamics to environmental conditions and management regulations. We restricted our model to Prince of Wales and outlying islands, because this area is partially isolated, is the focus of timber harvest in the region, and has the most empirical data available for model parameterization. We examined 6 combinations of future timber harvest, winter severity, wolf harvest regulations, and roads on population dynamics of deer and wolves, developed by a panel of experts. Results. Outcomes across scenarios after 30 years varied, with changes in wolf abundance ranging from a 156% increase to a 41% decline, whereas deer abundance declined from 10\u221237% after 30 years. Mean percentage of the 31 pack areas that were vacant after 30 years ranged from 0 to 67%, indicating that environmental conditions strongly affected pack success. Variation in wolf abundance was driven primarily by changes in wolf harvest regulations, with smaller contributions from road density, forest succession, and severe-winter frequency. Given current low estimated wolf numbers and continued legal and illegal harvest, this raises conservation concerns for the future of wolves in our study area. In addition, we found that wolf declines could be greater if wolves rely more heavily on deer in the future, for instance if salmon availability declines under future climate change, but also that reduction of deer hunting could increase wolf abundance. Discussion. The potential importance of illegal harvest in wolf population dynamics needs further acknowledgement and treatment. However, changes to harvest regulations, which would not reduce unreported harvest, could still be a powerful tool for management of this small, declining, and insular population. Nevertheless, maximum abundance of wolves appears to be curtailed by the steady decline in carrying capacity forecast across all timber management plans currently under consideration. Although we evaluated factors affecting wolf abundance individually, we encourage a holistic approach to management of this predator-prey system in an altered ecosystem.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1934/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alberta', u'Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska - Fairbanks', u'The Nature Conservancy', u'United States Fish and Wildlife Service', u'482 Murphy Rd']]
[u'Can a low carrying capacity and a highly stochastic environment induce a predator pit in elk populations?', ['Jon Horne', 'Scott Bergen', 'Mark Hurley'], u'2016-04-07', u'Due to concern over declining elk populations and the unknown effects of wolf predation, Idaho Department of Fish and Game initiated a survival study of elk in north-central Idaho. A total of 82 adult and 80 calves (~6 months old) were captured and fitted with GPS radio-collars from the winter of 2009 \u2013 winter 2014. Adult survival rates averaged 86% (range 76% - 97%). Calf survival rates averaged 44% but varied dramatically from year to year. We used a stochastic model of elk-wolf dynamics to investigate the implications of a highly stochastic growth rates indicative of the observed survival rates. In particular, we were interested in the interaction between elk density-dependent growth, carrying capacity and the amount of stochasticity in predation rates. We found that when predation rates were highly stochastic and carrying capacities were low, populations behave as if they were in a predator pit but if carrying capacity was high or stochasticy low, populations grew out of the predator pit. These results suggest that in a stochastic environment, populations may actually be influenced by both bottom-up and top-down forcing simultaneously as opposed to being governed by one or the other.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1933/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Idaho Department of Fish and Game']]
[u'BioAssay templates for the semantic web', ['Alex M Clark', 'Nadia K Litterman', 'Janice E Kranz', 'Peter Gund', 'Kellan Gregory', 'Barry A Bunin'], u'2016-04-07', u'Annotation of bioassay protocols using semantic web vocabulary is a way to make experiment descriptions machine-readable. Protocols are communicated using concise scientific English, which precludes most kinds of analysis by software algorithms. Given the availability of a sufficiently expressive ontology, some or all of the pertinent information can be captured by asserting a series of facts, expressed as semantic web triples (subject, predicate, object). With appropriate annotation, assays can be searched, clustered, tagged and evaluated in a multitude of ways, analogous to other segments of drug discovery informatics. The BioAssay Ontology (BAO) has been previously designed for this express purpose, and provides a layered hierarchy of meaningful terms which can be linked to. Currently the biggest challenge is the issue of content creation: scientists cannot be expected to use the BAO effectively without having access to software tools that make it straightforward to use the vocabulary in a canonical way. We have sought to remove this barrier by: (1) defining a bioassay template data model; (2) creating a software tool for experts to create or modify templates to suit their needs; and (3) designing a common assay template (CAT) to leverage the most value from the BAO terms. The CAT was carefully assembled by biologists in order to find a balance between the maximum amount of information captured vs. low degrees of freedom in order to keep the user experience as simple as possible. The data format that we use for describing templates and corresponding annotations is the native format of the semantic web (RDF triples), and we demonstrate some of the ways that generated content can be meaningfully queried using the SPARQL language. We have made all of these materials available as open source (http://github.com/cdd/bioassay-template), in order to encourage community input and use within diverse projects, including but not limited to our own commercial electronic lab notebook products.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1932/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Data Science'], [u'Research & Development, Collaborative Drug Discovery, Inc.']]
[u'Finding patterns in biochemical reaction networks', ['Ron Henkel', 'Fabienne Lambusch', 'Olaf Wolkenhauer', 'Kurt Sandkuhl', 'Christian Rosenke', 'Dagmar Waltemath'], u'2016-04-06', u'Computational models in biology encode molecular and cell biological processes. Many of them can be represented as biochemical reaction networks. Studying such networks, one is often interested in systems that share similar reactions and mechanisms. Typical goals are to understand the parts of a model, to identify reoccurring patterns, and to find biologically relevant motifs. The large number of models are available for such a search, but also the large size of models require automated methods.Specifically the generic problem of finding patterns in large networks is computationally hard. As a consequence, only partial solutions for a structural analysis of models exist. Here we introduce a tool chain that identifies reoccurring patterns in biochemical reaction networks. We started this work with an evaluation of algorithms for the identification of frequent subgraphs. Then, we created graph representations of existing SBML models and ran the most suitable algorithm on the data. The result was a list of reaction patterns together with statistics about the occurrence of each pattern in the data set. The approach was validated with 575 SBML models from the curated branch of BioModels. We analysed how the resulting patterns confirm with expectations from the literature and from previous model statistics. In the future, the identified patterns can serve as a tool to measure the similarity of models.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1479/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'Scientific Databases and Visualization, Heidelberg Institute for Theoretical Studies', u'Business Information Systems, University of Rostock', u'Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock', u'Institute for Computer Science, University of Rostock']]
[u'An explicit-solvent conformation search method using open software', ['Kari Gaalswyk', 'Christopher N Rowley'], u'2016-04-06', u'Computer modeling is a popular tool to identify the most-probable conformers of a molecule. Although the solvent can have a large effect on the stability of a conformation, many popular conformational search methods are only capable of describing molecules in the gas phase or with an implicit solvent model. We have developed a work-flow for performing a conformation search on explicitly-solvated molecules using open source software. This method uses replica exchange molecular dynamics to sample the conformational states of the molecule efficiently. Cluster analysis is used to identify the most probable conformations from the simulated trajectory. This work-flow was tested on drug molecules a-amanitin and cabergoline to illustrate its capabilities and effectiveness. The preferred conformations of these molecules in gas phase, implicit solvent, and explicit solvent are significantly different.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1931/', ['Biophysics', 'Pharmacology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry, Memorial University of Newfoundland']]
[u'Syzygium (Myrtaceae): Monographing a taxonomic giant via 22 coordinated regional revisions', ['Berhaman Ahmad', 'Claudia Baider', 'Benedetta Bernardini', 'Edward Biffin', 'Fabian Brambach', 'David Burslem', 'James W Byng', 'Maarten Christenhusz', 'F. B. Vincent Florens', 'Eve Lucas', 'Avik Ray', 'Rajasri Ray', 'Erik Smets', 'Neil Snow', 'Joeri S Strijk', 'Peter G. Wilson'], u'2016-04-05', u'Syzygium Gaertn. is the largest woody genus of flowering plants in the world. Unpublished but extensive recent herbarium surveys suggest 1200\u20121800 species distributed throughout the Old World tropics and subtropics (Table 1). Until recently, Syzygium exemplified a recurring taxonomic impediment among megadiverse genera, wherein few taxonomists worked on the group in any sustained manner, a majority of the herbarium specimens remained undetermined or misidentified, few if any attempts were made to look at the genus globally, and limited or no molecular studies were available to provide a predictive phylogenetic context of the genus. The situation with Syzygium has slowly begun to change as allied genera have been absorbed into the genus (Biffin et al., 2006; Craven & Biffin, 2010), and predictive phylogenetically-based infrageneric classifications are emerging. Taxonomic outputs on Syzygium also have been increasing across its range with the description of new species, resolution of nomenclatural and typification issues, and some regional revisions being initiated or updated. However, virtually all regional treatments (which some areas lack) need urgent revision because they are severely outdated, have limited molecular sampling and are error-ridden. We are coordinating a genus-wide taxonomic update of Syzygium through a series of 22 regional revisions, including 9 in the Flora Malesiana region (Figure 1). Each treatment will include a phylogenetic framework with species descriptions, type information, synonymy, distributions, ecological notes, and keys. Field images (Figure 2) and/or line drawings will be included with the goal of every species being illustrated. This working group has been formed to encourage a coordinated effort to document this unwieldy taxonomic giant and regional botanists working on the group are encouraged to be involved. A robust taxonomy of the genus is a prerequisite for testing the many complex questions about evolution and ecology that Syzygium could help address.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1930/', ['Plant Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Faculty of Science & Natural Resources,, Universiti Malaysia Sabah', u'Agricultural Services, The Mauritius Herbarium', u'Plant Gateway', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Aberdeen', u'Department of Environment, Water and Natural Resources, State Herbarium of South Australia', u'Department of Plant Ecology and Ecosystems Research, Georg-August Universit\xe4t G\xf6ttingen', u'Understanding Evolution, Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew', u'Department of Biosciences, University of Mauritius', u'Herbarium,, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew', u'Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment (ATREE)', u'Centre of Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science', u'Department of Biology, Pittsburg State University', u'College of Forestry, Guangxi University (\u5e7f\u897f\u5927\u5b66\u5316\u5b66\u5316\u5de5\u5b66\u9662)', u'Royal Botanic Gardens, Sydney']]
[u'Is it safe to nest near bold neighbours? Spatial patterns in predation risk associated with the density of American Golden-Plover nest', ['Marie-Andree Giroux', 'Myriam Trottier-Paquet', 'Joel Bety', 'Vincent Lamarre', 'Nicolas Lecomte'], u'2016-04-05', u'Predation is one of the main factors explaining nesting mortality in most bird species. Birds can avoid nest predation or reduce predation pressure by breeding at higher latitude, showing anti-predator behaviour, and nesting in association with protective species. Plovers actively defend their territory by displaying early warning and aggressive/mobbing behaviour, potentially benefiting the neighbouring nests by decreasing their predation risk. To test for the existence of such a protective effect, we studied the influence of proximity to plover nests on predation risk of artificial nests on Igloolik Island (Nunavut, Canada) in July 2014. We predicted that the predation risk of artificial nests increases and decreases with the distance to and the density of plover nests, respectively. We monitored 18 plover nests and set 35 artificial nests at 30, 50, 100, 200 and 500 m from seven of those plover nests. Surprisingly, we showed that predation risk of artificial nests increases with the density of active plover nests. We also found a significant negative effect of the distance to the nearest active protector nest on predation risk of artificial nests. Understanding how the composition and structure of shorebird communities generate spatial patterns in predation risks represent a key step to better understand the importance of these species of conservation concern in tundra food webs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1929/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Canada Research Chair on Northern Biodiversity, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Rimouski', u'Canada Research Chair in Polar and Boreal Ecology, Universit\xe9 de Moncton']]
[u'Food safety in Thailand 4: Comparison of pesticide residues found in three commonly consumed vegetables purchased from local markets and supermarkets in Thailand', ['Sompon Wanwimolruk', 'Kamonrat Phopin', 'Somchai Boonpangrak', 'Virapong Prachayasittikul'], u'2016-04-05', u'Background The wide use of pesticides raises concerns on the health risks associated with pesticide exposure. For developing countries, pesticide residues in vegetables and fruits have not been totally monitored. This study aims at providing comparison data on pesticide residues found in three commonly consumed vegetables (Chinese kale, pakchoi and morning glory) purchased from some local markets and supermarkets in Thailand. Methods These vegetables were randomly bought from local markets and supermarkets. Then they were analyzed for the content of 28 pesticides by using GC-MS/MS. Results Types of pesticides detected in the samples either from local markets or supermarkets were similar. The incidence of detected pesticides was 100% (local markets) and 99% (supermarkets) for the Chinese kale; 98% (local markets) and 100% (supermarkets) for the pakchoi; and 99% (local markets) and 97% (supermarkets) for the morning glory samples. The pesticides were detected exceeding their MRL at a rate of 48% (local markets) and 35% (supermarkets) for the Chinese kale; 71% (local markets) and 55% (supermarkets) for the pakchoi, and 42% (local markets) and 49% (supermarkets) for the morning glory. Discussion These rates are much higher than those seen in developed countries. It should be noted that these findings were assessed on basis of using criteria (such as MRL) obtained from developed countries. Our findings were also confined to these vegetables sold in a few central provinces of Thailand and did not reflect for the whole country as sample sizes were small. Risk assessment due to consuming these pesticide contaminated vegetables, still remains to be evaluated. It is unlikely that this will affect the health of tourists visiting Thailand because they do not consume these vegetables daily and in large amount. However, remarkably high incidence rates of detected pesticides give warning to the Thai authorities to implement proper regulations on pesticide monitoring programme. Similar incidence of pesticide contamination found in the vegetables bought from local markets and supermarkets raises question regarding the quality of organic vegetables domestically sold in Thailand. This conclusion excludes Thai export quality vegetables and fruits routinely monitored for pesticide contamination before exporting.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1928/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Toxicology', 'Nutrition'], [u'Center for Research and Innovation, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University', u'Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University']]
[u'Isolation and characterization of 7 microsatellite loci for the Florida Burrowing Owl (Athene cunicularia floridana)', ['Alison Laxer', 'Maureen Krause', 'Ann Marie Clark', 'Melissa M Grigione', 'Ronald Sarno'], u'2016-04-05', u'Despite long-term scientific interest in the Florida Burrowing Owl, little is known about key aspects of its ecology that likely influence population persistence. This is a cause of alarm considering that the Florida Burrowing Owl has been designated a \u201cSpecies of Special Concern\u201d since 1979. Therefore, seven microsatellite loci were developed and characterized for 48 Florida Burrowing Owls. All loci were polymorphic and six of them differed significantly from Hardy-Weinberg expectations. Although preliminary, the number of loci out of HW equilibrium may result from low population size and resultant non-random mating that could be caused by habitat fragmentation as development has ensued.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1927/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics'], [u'Department of Biology, Hofstra University', u'UF Veterinary Forensic Program, W.R. Maples Center for Forensic Medicine, University of Florida', u'Graduate Program in Environmental Science and Department of Biology, Pace University    Pleasantville/Briarcliff']]
[u'Analysis of Test Driven Development on sentiment and coding activities in GitHub repositories', ['Neil Borle', 'Meysam Feghhi', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2016-04-05', u'This paper studies the relationship between Test Driven Development (TDD), productivity and developer sentiment in order to assess the impact of TDD on software development. We used a set of 256572 Java repositories archived from GitHub in September 2015 and made available through the Boa language and infrastructure. This research found that of these repositories, 9537 could be classified as using the TDD methodology. After obtaining these repositories we compared them to an equivalently sized set of control repositories. In general those repositories practicing TDD had fewer commits and a faster median rate of committing than did their control counterparts. We also found that TDD repositories generally contained fewer bug fixing commits. Finally, sentiment analysis was performed on both sets of repositories and it was determined that TDD repositories have a significantly (p-value 3.857e-12) more positive sentiment in comparison to the control repositories.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1920/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Lateral presentation alters overall viewing strategy', ['Christopher J Luke', 'Petra M J Pollux'], u'2016-04-05', u'Eye tracking has been used during face categorisation and identification tasks to identify perceptually salient facial features and infer underlying cognitive processes. However, viewing patterns are influenced by a variety of gaze biases, drawing fixations to the centre of a screen and horizontally to the left side of face images (left-gaze bias). In order to investigate potential interactions between gaze biases uniquely associated with facial expression processing, and those associated with screen location, face stimuli were presented in three possible screen positions to the left, right and centre. Comparisons of fixations between screen locations highlight a significant impact of the screen centre bias, pulling fixations towards the centre of the screen and modifying gaze biases generally observed during facial categorisation tasks. A left horizontal bias for fixations was found to be independent of screen position but interacting with screen centre bias, drawing fixations to the left hemi-face rather than just to the left of the screen. Implications for eye tracking studies utilising centrally presented faces are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1926/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology, University of Lincoln']]
[u'Decomposition of Ethiopian life expectancy by age and cause of mortality; 1990-2010', ['Gizachew Balew', 'Youngtae Cho'], u'2016-04-05', u'Background: Ethiopia, a sub-Saharan country with over 94 million populations growing at a rate of 2.6 percent is showing a fast socio-economic improvement. According to World Health Organization 2014, life expectancy in the country has increased by about 19 years with in the last two decades. It has also reduced child mortality by 2/3rd; two years ahead of millennium development goal deadline. This research will focus in decomposing the improvement in life expectancy in the country from 1990 to 2010. Methods: We used a secondary data on cause and age specific mortality estimate of Ethiopia from institute of health metrics and evaluation. Burden of disease is measured using potential life years lost and potential life years gained using survival 6 program and compared across time. Further improvement in life expectancy is decomposed across age and specific causes using Pollard\u2019s life expectancy decomposition method. Results: Burden of disease measured in weighted years of life lost (YLL) shows that lower respiratory infection at a value of 5.35, neonatal disorders [4.058], diarrheal diseases [3.6], neglected tropical diseases [2.4], meningitis [1.49] and tuberculosis [1.19] are the top causes of burden in 1990 which showed a slight shift in 2010. Lower respiratory tract infections showed the highest reduction in YLL by about 41.27%, followed by diarrheal disease (32.8%) and meningitis (26.46%). Decomposition of life expectancy shows among the total 15.25 years increase in life expectancy from 1990 to 2010, about 5.8 (35.78%) years of increase in life expectancy is achieved through improved longevity in children\u2019s aged 1- 4 year. On the other hand diarrheal diseases reduction contributes about 3.12 [15.96%] followed by lower respiratory infection about 2.54 [12.98%], neglected tropical diseases by 1.45 [7.43%] and tuberculosis by 1.2 [6.25%] years. Conclusions and recommendation: Burden of disease in Ethiopia has declined dramatically which has contributed to the improvement in life expectancy, with the highest reduction already recorded in major communicable diseases. Though it is encouraging that mortality from children has reduced in the country, the slow change in mortality and burden of disease in the general adult population needs future public attention.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1925/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Public Health, Seoul National University']]
[u'Osteology of the Late Triassic aetosaur Scutarx deltatylus (Archosauria: Pseudosuchia)', ['William G Parker'], u'2016-04-03', u'Aetosaurs are some of the most common fossils collected from the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation of Arizona, especially at the Petrified Forest National Park. Four partial skeletons collected from the park from 2002 through 2009 represent the holotype and referred specimens of Scutarx deltatylus. These specimens include much of the carapace, as well as the vertebral column, and shoulder and pelvic girldles. A partial skull represents the first aetosaur skull recovered from Arizona since the 1930s. Scutarx deltatylus can be distinguished from closely related forms Calyptosuchus wellesi and Adamanasuchus eisenhardtae not only morphologically, but also stratigraphically. Thus, Scutarx deltatylus is potentially an index taxon for the upper part of the Adamanian biozone.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1924/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Division of Resource Management, Petrified Forest National Park', u'Jackson School of Geosciences, University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'How apparent competition and predator responses led to the decline of Arctic ground squirrels in the boreal forests of the southwest Yukon', ['Jeffery R Werner', 'Elizabeth A Gillis', 'Rudy Boonstra', 'Charles J Krebs'], u'2016-04-01', u'Throughout much of North America\u2019s boreal forest, the cyclical fluctuations of snowshoe hare populations (Lepus americanus) may cause other herbivores to become entrained in similar cycles. Alternating apparent competition and indirect mutualism via prey switching are the mechanisms behind this interaction. Our purpose is to document a change in the role of indirect interactions between sympatric populations of hares and arctic ground squirrels (Urocitellus parryii plesius), and to emphasize the influence of predation for controlling ground squirrel numbers. We used mark-recapture to estimate the population densities of both species over a 25-year period that covered two snowshoe hare cycles. We analysed the strength of association between snowshoe hare and ground squirrel numbers and changes in the seasonal and annual population growth rates of ground squirrels over time. A hyperbolic curve best describes the per capita rate of increase of ground squirrels relative to their population size, with a single stable equilibrium and a lower critical threshold below which populations drift to extinction. The crossing of this unstable boundary resulted in the subsequent uncoupling of ground squirrel and hare populations following the decline phase of their cycles in 1998. The implications are that this sustained Type II predator response led to the local extinction of ground squirrels. Arctic ground squirrels may also have exhibited an Allee effect caused by the disruption of social signalling of approaching predators when few individuals are left in a colony.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1923/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Biodiversity Research Centre, Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia', u'Department of Resource Management and Protection, Vancouver Island University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Toronto, Scarborough', u'Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia']]
[u'Hypersaline lakes harbor more active bacterial communities', ['Zachary T Aanderud', 'Joshua C Vert', 'Jay T Lennon', 'Tylan W Magnusson', 'Donald P Breakwell', 'Alan R Harker'], u'2016-04-01', u'Extremophiles employ a diverse array of resistance strategies to thrive under harsh environmental conditions but maintaining these adaptations comes at an energetic cost. If energy reserves to drop too low, extremophiles may enter a dormant state of reduced metabolic activity to survive. Dormancy is frequently offered as a plausible explanation for the persistence of bacteria under suboptimal environmental conditions with the prevalence of this mechanism only expected to rise as stressful conditions intensify. We estimated dormancy in ten hypersaline and freshwater lakes across the Western United States. To our surprise, we found that extreme environmental conditions did not induce higher levels of bacterial dormancy. Based on our approach using rRNA:rDNA gene ratios to estimate activity, halophilic and halotolerant bacteria were classified as inactive at a similar percentage as freshwater bacteria, and the proportion of the community exhibiting dormancy was considerably lower (16%) in hypersaline than freshwater lakes across a range of cutoffs estimating activity. Of the multiple chemical characteristics we evaluated, salinity and, to a lesser extent, total phosphorus concentrations influenced activity. But instead of dormancy being more common as stressful conditions intensified, the percentage of the community residing in an inactive state decreased with increasing salinity in freshwater and hypersaline lakes, suggesting that salinity acts as a strong environmental filter selecting for bacteria that persist and thrive under saltier conditions. Within the compositionally distinct and less diverse hypersaline communities, abundant taxa were disproportionately active and localized in families Microbacteriaceae (Actinobacteria), Nitriliruptoraceae (Actinobacteria), and Rhodobacteraceae (Alphaproteobacteria). Our results demonstrate that extreme environments may not necessarily be stressful or suboptimal for highly adapted extremophiles causing them to need dormancy less often to survive.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1922/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Plant and Wildlife Sciences, Brigham Young University', u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Biology, Brigham Young University', u'Department of Biology, Indiana University at Bloomington']]
[u'Do chimpanzees and orangutans use communication in a cooperative task?', ['Africa de las Heras', 'Dan Sperber', 'Josep Call'], u'2016-04-01', u'Previous experimental studies show that captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and orangutans (Pongo abelii) cooperate with conspecifics but communication does not seem to play a crucial role. We presented a coordination task in which pairs of conspecifics had to communicate to succeed. Participants faced each other from opposite sides of an apparatus playing either a communicator or an operator role. At the beginning of each trial, the communicator was provided with a tool that could only be used from the operator\u2019s side. If the operator inserted the tool into the baited tube the apparatus delivered food for both apes. Successful cooperation required that the communicator pass the tool to the operator and indicate the location of the baited tube so that the operator could insert it into the baited tube. In the experimental condition, only the communicator could see which one of four tubes was baited, while in the control condition both individuals had visual access to the baited tube. Data collection is currently ongoing. Participants are chimpanzees (1 male, 5 females; mean age= 22 years) and orangutans (2 males, 5 females; mean age= 18 years) housed at the Wolfgang K\xf6hler Primate Research Center in Leipzig (Germany). So far, four dyads of chimpanzees have cooperated to solve the task. Preliminary results indicate that the communicator typically transfers the tool near the location of the food. In the experimental condition, success rate varies from 25% to 81% (compared to 94-100% in the control condition). Communicators pass the tool, touch or point at the food location, whereas operators request the tool, and both use attention getters aimed at their partners. We are currently analyzing whether these behaviors are independent of the operator\u2019s visual access to the baited location.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1921/', ['Animal Behavior'], [u'Department of Developmental and Comparative Psychology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology', u'School of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of St. Andrews', u'Departments of Cognitive Science and Philosophy, Central European University', u'Ecole Normale Superieure, Institut Jean Nicod']]
[u'A new virtual screening approach for protein disulfide isomerase inhibitors reveals potential candidates for antithrombotic agents', ['Noureddine Ben Khalaf', 'Moiz Bakhiet'], u'2016-04-01', u'Background: Arterial thrombosis causes heart attacks and strokes and constitutes one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in the world and few therapies are available for its treatment. Thus, new therapeutic approaches in the prevention and treatment of arterial thrombosis are needed. Protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) has been shown to be expressed on vascular cells following injury and to be involved in regulating thrombus formation in vivo. Since inhibition of PDI prevents platelet accumulation and fibrin generation, it makes it a valuable target for the development of new antithrombotics. Rutin, a flavonol glycoside derivative of Quercetin, was previously described for displaying decent potency against PDI, and it inhibited the agonist-induced platelets aggregation in vivo, however its utility is limited by its low solubility and its off-target activity. Rutin was recently reported to bind specifically to the b\u2019 domain of PDI affecting protein flexibility which results in the inhibition of its reductase activity. To investigate Rutin inhibitory mechanism we used docking and molecular dynamics simulation and we observed that Rutin binds to a specific hydrophobic pocket of the b\u2019 domain which reduces PDI flexibility. Methods: In an attempt to identify more potent, soluble and specific PDI inhibitors, we established an in silico approach based on similarity search in Zinc Drug-like library composed of more than 17 million compounds satisfying Lipiniski\u2019s rule of five. A KNIME workflow was established for selecting Rutin-similar compounds based on Tanimoto coefficients. Then, a virtual screening of selected compounds was performed using Autodock Vina on PDI target pocket. In order to select PDI specific probes, a counter-screen was run to eliminate hits binding Erp57 thioredoxin active site. Hits were then submitted to druglikeness prediction using Quantitative Estimate of Druglikeness (QED). A total of 5 compounds were selected and submitted to re-docking with Autodock Vina. Complexes were subject to Molecular Dynamics simulation using NAMD. Results and Discussion: a total of 4 compounds were shown to form stable complexes with PDI binding pocket and then could constitute promising candidates for lead optimization. In conclusion, our in silico approach lead to the identification of potential novel PDI inhibitors that may form suitable candidates for Arterial thrombosis drug discovery.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1919/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Cardiology', 'Drugs and Devices'], [u'HH. Al Jawhara Center for Molecular Medicine, Arabian Gulf University']]
[u'Cytokine response during non-cerebral and cerebral malaria: evidence of a failure to control inflammation as a cause of death in African adults', ['Yakhya Dieye', 'Babacar Mbengue', 'Shobha Dagamajalu', 'Mouhamadou M Fall', 'Mun Fai Loke', 'Cheikh M Nguer', 'Alassane Thiam', 'Jamuna Vadivelu', 'Alioune Dieye'], u'2016-04-01', u'Background. With 214 million cases and 438,000 deaths in 2015, malaria remains one of the deadliest infectious diseases in tropical countries. Several species of the protozoan Plasmodium cause malaria. However, almost all the fatalities are due to Plasmodium falciparum, a species responsible for the severest cases including cerebral malaria. Immune response to Plasmodium falciparum infection is mediated by the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and growth factors whose actions are crucial for the control of the parasites. Following this response, the induction of anti-inflammatory immune mediators downregulates the inflammation thus preventing its adverse effects such as damages to various organs and death. Methods. We performed a retrospective, nonprobability sampling study using clinical data and sera samples from patients, mainly adults, suffering of non-cerebral or cerebral malaria in Dakar, S\xe9n\xe9gal. Healthy individuals residing in the same area were included as controls. We measured the serum levels of 29 biomarkers including growth factors, chemokines, inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines. Results. We found an induction of both pro- and anti-inflammatory immune mediators during malaria. The levels of pro-inflammatory biomarkers were higher in the cerebral malaria than in the non-cerebral malaria patients. In contrast, the concentrations of anti-inflammatory cytokines were comparable in these two groups or lower in CM patients. Additionally, four pro-inflammatory biomarkers were significantly increased in the deceased of cerebral malaria compared to the survivors. Regarding organ damage, kidney failure was significantly associated with death in adults suffering of cerebral malaria. Conclusions. Our results suggest that a poorly controlled inflammatory response determines a bad outcome in African adults suffering of cerebral malaria.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1918/', ['Parasitology', 'Global Health', 'Immunology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u"Vice-Chancellor's Office, University of Malaya", u'D\xe9partement d\u2019Immunologie, Facult\xe9 de M\xe9dicine, de Pharmacie et d\u2019Odontostomatologie, Universit\xe9 Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar', u'Unit\xe9 d\u2019Immunog\xe9n\xe9tique, Institut Pasteur de Dakar', u'Department of Medical Microbiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya', u'Service de R\xe9animation,, H\xf4pital Principal de Dakar', u'D\xe9partement G\xe9nie Chimique et Biologie Appliqu\xe9e, \xc9cole Sup\xe9rieure Polytechnique, Universit\xe9 Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar']]
[u'Scaling laws predict global microbial diversity', ['Kenneth J Locey', 'Jay T Lennon'], u'2016-03-31', u'Scaling laws underpin unifying theories of biodiversity and are among the most predictively powerful relationships in biology. However, scaling laws developed for plants and animals often go untested or fail to hold for microorganisms. As a result, it is unclear whether scaling laws of biodiversity will span evolutionarily distant domains of life that encompass all modes of metabolism and scales of abundance. Using a global-scale compilation of ~35,000 sites and ~5.6\xb7106 species, including the largest ever inventory of high-throughput molecular data and one of the largest compilations of plant and animal community data, we demonstrate similar rates of scaling in commonness and rarity across microorganisms and macroscopic plants and animals. We document a universal dominance scaling law that holds across 30 orders of magnitude, an unprecedented expanse that predicts the abundance of dominant ocean bacteria. In combining this scaling law with the lognormal model of biodiversity, we predict that Earth is home to upwards one trillion (1012) microbial species. Microbial biodiversity seems greater than ever anticipated yet predictable from the smallest to the largest microbiome.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1451/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Indiana University at Bloomington']]
[u'Application of nitrones in the stereoselective synthesis of important \u03b2-lactam compounds', ['Marek Chmielewski'], u'2016-03-31', u'The copper(I)-mediated reaction of nitrones with terminal acetylenes, known as the Kinugasa reaction, represents an attractive method of direct formation of the \u03b2-lactam ring. The reaction can be performed in many ways. Diastereoselective versions, including cyclic chiral nitrones or chiral acetylenes and open-chain nitrones, are the most attractive. An alternative method yielding \u03b2-lactams with high stereoselectivity, in which nitrones are used, is their 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition to unsaturated lactones. After N- O bond cleavage, cycloadducts can be easily transformed into \u03b2-lactams via an intramolecular acylation of the nitrogen atom. Both methodologies are demonstrated in the synthesis of carbapenems (Thienamycin and 4AA azetidinone), monobactams (Carumonam) and Ezetimibe, a powerful cholesterol absorption inhibitor.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1917/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Institute of Organic Chemistry PAS']]
[u'Morphometric variation of extant platyrrhine molars: taxonomic implications for fossil platyrrhines', ['Monica Nova Delgado', 'Jordi Galbany', 'Alejandro Perez-Perez'], u'2016-03-31', u"The phylogenetic position of many fossil platyrrhines with respect to extant ones is not yet clear. Two main hypotheses have been proposed: the  layered  or  successive   radiations  hypothesis suggests that Patagonian fossils are Middle Miocene stem platyrrhines lacking modern descendants, whereas the  long lineage  hypothesis argues for an evolutionary continuity of all fossil platyrrhines with the extant ones. Our geometric morphometric analysis of a 15 landmark-based configuration of platyrrhines' first and second lower molars suggest that morphological stasis, may explain the reduced molar shape variation observed. Platyrrhine lower molar shape might be a primitive retention of the ancestral state affected by strong ecological constraints thoughout the radiation the main platyrrhine families. The Patagonian fossil specimens showed two distinct morphological patterns of lower molars,  Callicebus  -like and  Saguinus  -like, which might be the precursors of the extant forms, whereas the Middle Miocene specimens, though showing morphological resemblances with the Patagonian fossils, also displayed new, derived molar patternss,  Alouatta-  like and  Pitheciinae  -like, thereby suggesting that despite the overall morphological stasis of molars, phenotypic diversification of molar shape was already settled during the Middle Miocene.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1796/', ['Anthropology', 'Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Animal Biology, Anthropology Section, Universitat de Barcelona', u'Center for the Advanced Study of Human Paleobiology, Department of Anthropology, George Washington University']]
[u'Longevity and personality in captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes)', ['Drew M Altschul', 'James E King', 'Miho Inoue-Murayama', 'Stephen R Ross', 'Alexander Weiss'], u'2016-03-31', u"Over the past 20 years, the study of personality has blossomed within primatology. Rating inventories have been extensively used across species to identify personality factor structures for different species. Chimpanzees share a common six-factor structure, composed of Dominance, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Conscientiousness, Neuroticism, and Openness. Conscientiousness, Agreeableness, and Extraversion, have been tied to positive effects on overall health and longevity in humans, while Neuroticism is associated with shorter life span. In captive gorillas, Extraversion alone is associated with longevity. We undertook a study of all captive, personality questionnaire-rated chimpanzees; the Chimpanzee and Hominoid Personality Questionnaires have been used to assess almost 600 chimpanzees from Europe, Australia, Japan, and the United States. With these data we investigated which personality dimensions and other life history characteristics might predict all-cause mortality. In an accelerated failure survival analysis, we found a strong effect of Extraversion (b = -5.88, p<0.0001), as well as lesser but significant effects of Agreeableness (b = 2.19, p<0.05), Openness (b = 1.76, p<0.05), and Neuroticism (-1.79, p<0.05). Female and wild born chimpanzees appear to also live significantly longer (ps<0.01). The robustness of an animal's social network and the quality of its social interactions play a role in the health of social organisms. This is reflected in the importance of Extraversion for gorilla and chimpanzee health, and Agreeableness for chimpanzees. Yet, the effects of Neuroticism and Openness are more similar to what has been found in humans.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1916/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh', u'Scottish Primate Research Group', u'Department of Psychology, University of Arizona', u'Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University', u'Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of Apes, Lincoln Park Zoo']]
[u'Additive and compensatory predation mortality by cougar on elk', ['David J. Vales', 'Michael P. Middleton', 'Mike T. McDaniel'], u'2016-03-31', u'We studied the impact of predation by cougar ( Puma concolor) on elk ( Cervus elaphus) over a 17 year time span in two watersheds in western Washington. Elk numbers ranged widely in each watershed, from a low of 130 increasing to \u2248600 in the Green River and from 600 increasing to \u22481,400 in the White River. We studied adult cow elk survival (n=244) and calf survival (n=548) in both watersheds using radio-marked animals. We manipulated cougar numbers by conducting targeted removals over 7 years and estimated cougar density prior, during, and after the removals. Cougar predation on elk calves was strongly additive (R2=0.80). Cougar predation on cow elk was partially additive in the Green River where other factors had less influence on adult elk survival. Survival of adult cow elk in the White River was less affected by cougar predation than other factors in part due to greater public access. Based on age and femur marrow condition we estimated that 25% of all radio-marked adult elk mortalities due to cougar were compensatory. We have also investigated predation rate by cougar using GPS-marked cougar (n=12). We estimated that 15% of adult elk >= 2 years old that were killed by cougar were likely compensatory and that 75% were likely additive. Removing cougars allowed elk in both watersheds to recover to, or exceed, herd objectives for both watersheds, and restore elk hunting opportunity. Our data strongly indicates that cougar were limiting elk, and that cougar removals allowed elk to escape the predator pit they were in. But simply removing cougar in other elk-cougar systems may not restore elk depending on the relative influence of other factors affecting mortality, amount of additive predation mortality, and suite of interacting predators and prey.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1915/', ['Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Wildlife Program, Muckleshoot Indian Tribe']]
[u'Isolation and characterization of halophilic soil fungi from the salt desert of Little Rann of Kutch, India', ['Kartikeya Rajpal', 'Ram Prasad', 'Vijai Kumar Gupta', 'Ajit Varma'], u'2016-03-31', u'Extremophiles are considered a cornucopian source of chemically diverse and often novel metabolites. Determination of their growth and distribution pattern and their chemical nature is therefore vital to fully gauge their existential uniqueness and potential as a fount of novel compounds. Present study deals with growth characterization and chemoprofiling of halophilic fungi inhabiting a hitherto unexplored terrain of Little Rann of Kutch, India. Thirty five morphologically discrete fungi, primarily belonging to phylum Ascomycota, were isolated from the soil, suggestive of the region\u2019s low microbial diversity. Calculation of fungal salt tolerance index identified one isolate as a halophile with the remaining being halotolerant. Morphological characteristics and 18S rDNA sequencing established the halophile\u2019s identity as Aspergillus versicolor. A. versicolor was further characterized for its salt tolerance potential and degree of halophily. The fungus grew optimally at 7.5% NaCl, thereby classifying it as a moderate halophile. Macro-morphology of the fungus corresponded well with its micro-morphology. At 0% and 10% NaCl, fungal specimen exhibited mycelial distortions, loss of cytoplasm and sparse conidiation; healthy growth features were observed at 7.5% NaCl. For chemoprofiling, A. versicolor was cultured on Czapek Dox broth and Malt Extract broth and the crude extract was analysed by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (LC-MS). A comparative chemoprofile analysis determined Czapek Dox broth to be a better choice for profiling of this particular strain as it exhibited higher compound diversity. The rich chemical contour of A. versicolor suggests the fungus to be a potential source of novel bioactive molecules of pharmaceutical significance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1914/', ['Biodiversity', 'Microbiology', 'Mycology'], [u'Amity Institute of Microbial Technology, Amity University Uttar Pradesh', u'Molecular Glycobiotechnology Group, Discipline of Biochemistry, National University of Ireland Galway, Galway']]
[u'Climate, topography and soil factors interact to drive community trait distributions in global drylands', ['Yoann Le Bagousse-Pinguet', 'Pierre Liancourt', 'Nicolas Gross', 'Francesco de Bello', 'Carlos Roberto Carlos Fonseca', 'Jens Kattge', 'Enrique Valencia', 'Jan Leps', 'Fernando T. Maestre'], u'2016-03-31', u'The skewness and kurtosis of community trait distributions (CTDs) can provide important insights on the mechanisms driving community assembly and species coexistence. However, they have not been considered yet when describing global patterns in CTDs. We aimed to do so by evaluating how environmental variables (mean annual temperature [MAT] and precipitation [MAP], precipitation seasonality [PS], slope angle and sand content) and their interactions affected the mean, variance, skewness, kurtosis of the plant CTDs in global drylands. We gathered specific leaf area and maximum plant height data from 130 dryland communities from all continents except Antarctica. Over 90% of the studied communities had skewed CTDs for SLA and height or had kurtosis values differing from those of normal distributions. Higher MAT and/or lower MAP led to a shift toward plant communities over-represented by \u201cconservative\u201d strategies, and a decrease in functional diversity. However, considering interactions among environmental drivers increased the explanatory power of our models by 20%. Sand content strongly altered the responses of height to changes in MAT and MAP (climate \xd7 topo-edaphic interactions). Increasing PS reversed the effects of MAT and MAP (climate \xd7 climate interactions) on the four moments of CTDs for SLA, particularly in dry-subhumid regions. Our results indicate that the increase in PS forecasted by climate change models will reduce the functional diversity of dry-subhumid communities. They also indicate that ignoring interactions among environmental drivers can lead to misleading conclusions when evaluating global patterns in CTDs, and thus may dramatically undermine our ability to predict the impact of global environmental change on plant communities and associated ecosystem functioning.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1913/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Botany, University of South Bohemia', u'Universidad Rey Juan Carlos', u'Czech Academy of Sciences', u'INRA', u'CNRS - Universit\xe9 La Rochelle', u'Departamento de Ecologia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do    Norte', u'Max Planck Institute for Biogeochemistry', u'German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research', u'Biology Centre CAS', u'Departamento de Biolog\xeda y Geolog\xeda, F\xedsica y Qu\xedmica Inorg\xe1nica, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos']]
[u'Green synthesis of silver nanoparticles in aloe vera plant extract prepared by a hydrothermal method and their synergistic antibacterial activity', ['Patcharaporn Tippayawat', 'Nutthakritta Phromviyo', 'Parichart Boueroy', 'Apiwat Chompoosor'], u'2016-03-30', u'Background: There is worldwide interest in silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) synthesized by various chemical reactions for use in applications exploiting their antibacterial activity, even though these processes exhibit a broad range of toxicity in vertebrates and invertebrates alike. To avoid the chemical toxicity, biosynthesis (green synthesis) of metal nanoparticles is proposed as a cost-effective and environmental friendly alternative. Aloe vera leaf extract is a medicinal agent with multiple properties including an antibacterial effect. Moreover the constituents of aloe vera leaves include lignin, hemicellulose, and pectins which can be used in the reduction of silver ions to produce as AgNPs@aloe vera (AgNPs@AV) with antibacterial activity. Methods: AgNPs were prepared by an eco-friendly hydrothermal method using an aloe vera plant extract solution as both a reducing and stabilizing agent. AgNPs@AV were characterized using XRD and SEM. Additionally, an agar well diffusion method was used to screen for antimicrobial activity. MIC and MBC were used to correlate the concentration of AgNPs@AV its bactericidal effect. SEM was used to investigate bacterial inactivation. Then the toxicity with human cells was investigated using an MTT assay. Results: The synthesized AgNPs were crystalline with sizes of 70.70 \xb1 22-192.02 \xb1 53 nm as revealed using XRD and SEM. The sizes of AgNPs can be varied through alteration of times and temperatures used in their synthesis. These AgNPs were investigated for potential use as an antibacterial agent to inhibit pathogenic bacteria. Their antibacterial activity was tested on S. epidermidis and P. aeruginosa. The results showed that AgNPs had a high antibacterial which depended on their synthesis conditions, particularly when processed at 100 oC for 6 h and 200 oC for 12 h. The cytotoxicity of AgNPs was determined using human PBMCs revealing no obvious cytotoxicity. These results indicated that AgNPs@AV can be effectively utilized in pharmaceutical, biotechnological and biomedical applications. Discussion: Aloe vera extract was processed using a green and facile method. This was a hydrothermal method to reduce silver nitrate to AgNPs@AV. Varying the hydrothermal temperature provided the fine spherical shaped nanoparticles. The size of the nanomaterial was affected by its thermal preparation. The particle size of AgNPs could be tuned by varying both time and temperature. A process using a pure AG phase could go to completion in 6h at 200 oC, whereas reactions at lower temperatures required longer times. Moreover, the antibacterial effect of this hybrid nanomaterial was sufficient that it could be used to inhibit pathogenic bacteria since silver release was dependent upon its particle size. The high activity of the largest AgNPs might have resulted from a high concentration of aloe vera compounds incorporated into the AgNPs during hydrothermal synthesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1912/', ['Biotechnology', 'Microbiology', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Department of Clinical Microbiology/ Faculty of Associated Medical Sciences, Khon Kaen University', u'The Center for Research & Development of Medical Diagnostic Laboratories/ Faculty of Associated Medical Sciences, Khon Kaen University', u'Materials Science and Nanotechnology Program/ Faculty of Science, Khon Kaen University', u'Department of Microbiology/ Faculty of Medicine, Khon Kaen University', u'Department of Chemistry/ Faculty of Science, Ramkhamhaeng University', u'Integrated Nanotechnology Research Center (INRC), Khon Kaen University']]
[u'A framework for smartphone-enabled, patient-generated health data analysis', ['Shreya S Gollamudi', 'Eric J Topol', 'Nathan E Wineinger'], u'2016-03-30', u'Background: Digital medicine and smartphone-enabled health technologies provide a novel source of human health and human biology data. However, in part due to its intricacies, few methods have been established to analyze and interpret data in this domain. We previously conducted a six-month interventional trial examining the efficacy of a comprehensive smartphone-based health monitoring program for individuals with chronic disease. This included 38 individuals with hypertension who recorded 6,290 blood pressure readings over the trial. Methods: In the present study we provide a hypothesis testing framework for unstructured time series data, typical of patient-generated mobile device data. We used a mixed model approach for unequally spaced repeated measures using autoregressive and generalized autoregressive models, and applied this to the blood pressure data generated in this trial. Results: We were able to detect, roughly, a 2 mmHg decrease in both systolic and diastolic blood pressure over the course of the trial despite considerable intra- and inter-individual variation. Furthermore, by supplementing this finding by using a sequential analysis approach, we observed this result over three months prior to the official study end \u2013 highlighting the effectiveness of leveraging the digital nature of this data source to form timely conclusions. Conclusions: Health data generated through the use of smartphones and other mobile devices allow individuals the opportunity to make informed health decisions, and provide researchers the opportunity to address innovative health and biology questions. The hypothesis testing framework we present can be applied in future studies utilizing digital medicine technology or implemented in the technology itself to support the quantified self. The study was registered at clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01975428).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1911/', ['Evidence Based Medicine', 'Translational Medicine', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Scripps Translational Science Institute', u'Department of Molecular and Experimental Medicine, The Scripps Research Institute', u'Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Scripps Health']]
[u'Synthesis and physicochemical characterization of the impurities and the key intermediate of pemetrexed disodium, an anticancer drug', ['Olga Michalak', 'Mariusz Gruza', 'Marta  Laszcz', 'Kinga Trzcinska', 'Anna Witkowska', 'Iwona Bujak', 'Piotr Cmoch'], u'2016-03-30', u'Pemetrexed is an antifolate antineoplastic agent that acts by inhibiting the formation of precursor purine and pyrimidine nucleotides. Pemetrexed prevents the formation of DNA and RNA, which are required for the growth and survival of both normal and cancer cells. A pharmaceutical product containing pemetrexed disodium as the active ingredient is used for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM) and metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). The European Medicine Agency and the U.S. Food and Drug Administration require complete physicochemical characteristic not only for an active pharmaceutical ingredient, but also for its key synthetic intermediates and the impurities formed during synthesis drug products. Therefore the development of the synthesis methods for impurities and new crystalline forms of pemetrexed diacid \u2013 a key intermediate of pemetrexed disodium was described. Physicochemical characterizations of impurities and pemetrexed diacid were performed by means of thermal analysis, spectroscopic methods and powder diffraction. Structures elucidation on the basis of two-dimensional NMR experiments were discussed in details. Additionally, in this work, the crystal structure of pemetreksed diacid form C will be presented, together with its spectroscopic and thermal characteristics. The identification of these impurities and the intermediate is essential for the quality control during the production of the pemetrexed disodium salt.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1910/', ['Drugs and Devices'], [u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute', u'Department of Chemistry, OncoArenti Therapeutics Sp. z o.o.']]
[u'Predation in multi-prey multi-predator communities: Seeking common patterns between North America and Africa', ['Norman Owen-Smith'], u'2016-03-30', u'The impact that large mammalian carnivores can have on the abundance of their ungulate prey remains contentious and achieving scientific consensus has proved elusive. Several studies in temperate latitudes in North America have documented how increases in the abundance of wolves have been associated with declines in the abundance of certain large ungulate species, and vice versa. In contrast, in African savanna ecosystems in both southern and eastern Africa, variations in the abundance of ungulate populations seem to be primarily associated with fluctuations in rainfall affecting vegetation growth and consequent food availability for herbivores. In this review, I will explain how the functional mechanisms operating in these distinct ecosystems are basically similar, despite contrasts in their diversity of predators and prey. I will describe how predation constrains the abundance of African savanna herbivores, despite resource controls over their population dynamics. For case histories I will draw particularly on findings from South Africa\u2019s Kruger National Park, where the most comprehensive information is available.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1909/', ['Ecology'], [u'School of Animal, Plant and Environmental Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand']]
[u'Competitive interactions between corals and turf algae depend on coral colony form', ['Thomas Swierts', 'Mark JA Vermeij'], u'2016-03-30', u'Turf algae are becoming more abundant on coral reefs worldwide, but their effects on other benthic organisms remain poorly described. To describe the general characteristics of competitive interactions between corals and turf algae, we determined the occurrence and outcomes of coral \u2013 turf algal interactions among different coral growth forms (branching, upright, massive, encrusting, plating, and solitary) on a shallow reef in Vietnam. In total, the amount of turf algal interaction, i.e., the proportion of the coral boundary directly bordering turf algae, was quantified for 1276 coral colonies belonging to 27 genera and the putative outcome of each interaction was noted. The amount of turf algal interaction and the outcome of these interactions differed predictably among the six growth forms. Encrusting corals interacted most often with turf algae, but also competed most successfully against turf algae. The opposite was observed for branching corals, which rarely interacted with turf algae and rarely won these competitive interactions. Including all other growth forms, a positive relationship was found between the amount of competitive interactions with neighboring turf algae and the percentage of such interaction won by the coral. This growth form dependent ability to outcompete turf algae was not only observed among coral species, but also among different growth forms in morphologically plastic coral genera (Acropora, Favia, Favites, Montastrea, Montipora, Porites) illustrating the general nature of this relationship.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1908/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics, University of Amsterdam', u'Carmabi Foundation']]
[u'Examining the relationship between herbivores, corals and macroalgae on Singapore\u2019s heavily disturbed reefs', ['James R Guest', 'Adriana Verges', 'Andrew G Bauman', 'Alexandra H Campbell', 'Loke Ming Chou', 'David A Feary', 'Jeffrey KY Low', 'Ezequiel M Marzinelli', 'Karenne Tun', 'Peter D Steinberg'], u'2016-03-30', u'Background.Herbivores play a critical role in structuring benthic communities on tropical coral dominated reefs because they remove macro and microalgae, which might otherwise overgrow adult corals or prevent successful recruitment of juveniles. Reducing herbivory has been implicated in promoting phase shifts from coral dominance to other ecosystem states following acute disturbances. Turbidity and sedimentation are key physical processes that also structure coral reef communities because they limit light penetration and may interfere with biological processes such as heterotrophy. Singapore\u2019s coral reefs have been heavily impacted by human activities for decades and experience very high levels of sedimentation and turbidity. Macroalgae, particularly Sargassum spp. are abundant on the reef flats, while adjacent reef slopes are dominated by diverse coral assemblages, yet nothing is known about the role of herbivory in structuring these heavily disturbed reefs. Methods. To gain a better understanding of the role of herbivore biomass and potential herbivory in structuring these disturbed reefs, we quantified benthic cover of corals and macroalgae, fish biomasses and urchin abundance at eight representative sites among Singapore\u2019s southern islands during two seasons. In addition we filmed herbivory assays on replicate experimental macroalgal stands (4 separate macroalgal species) and natural EAM patches at three of these sites to estimate species-specific rates of herbivory. Using generalised linear mixed models we examine the relationship between herbivore abundances and benthic cover of corals and macroalgae.  Results. Average coral cover at 3-4 m depth was surprisingly high (~40%) compared to other Indo-Pacific reefs, considering decades of chronic anthropogenic impacts. In contrast, the average biomass of herbivorous fishes (~4 g m-2) was more typical of degraded and overfished reefs, while urchin abundances were within the range found at other Indo-Pacific sites. Herbivorous fish were not observed feeding on macroalgal assays during 29 h of filming, with all bites counted on EAM carried out primarily by territorial damselfish. There was a significant but weak relationship between coral cover and herbivore biomass but none for macroalgae or between urchin abundance and benthic cover. Discussion. Relatively high coral cover and low macroalgal cover at 3-4 m depth has been maintained on these highly disturbed reefs, demonstrating possible resilience to coral-macroalgal phase shifts despite decades of chronic human disturbances. We suggest that low light levels at 3-4 m depth may limit algal growth rates so that only low levels of herbivory are necessary to prevent seaweeds from outcompeting corals on turbid reefs such as those in the present study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1907/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'SECORE International', u'School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales', u'Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore', u'Tropical Marine Science Institute, National University of Singapore', u'School of Life Sciences, University of Nottingham', u'National Biodiversity Centre, National Parks Board']]
[u"Deep learning for constructing microblog behavior representation to identify social media user's personality", ['Xiaoqian Liu', 'Tingshao Zhu'], u'2016-03-30', u"Due to the rapid development of information technology, Internet has become part of everyday life gradually. People would like to communicate with friends to share their opinions on social networks. The diverse social network behavior is an ideal users' personality traits reflection. Existing behavior analysis methods for personality prediction mostly extract behavior attributes with heuristic. Although they work fairly well, but it is hard to extend and maintain. In this paper, for personality prediction, we utilize deep learning algorithm to build feature learning model, which could unsupervised extract Linguistic Representation Feature Vector (LRFV) from text published on Sina Micro-blog actively. Compared with other feature extraction methods, LRFV, as an abstract representation of Micro-blog content, could describe use's semantic information more objectively and comprehensively. In the experiments, the personality prediction model is built using linear regression algorithm, and different attributes obtained through different feature extraction methods are taken as input of prediction model respectively. The results show that LRFV performs more excellently in micro-blog behavior description and improve the performance of personality prediction model.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1906/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Natural Language and Speech', 'Social Computing'], [u'Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Preliminary study of water sources for maintenance and water utilization strategies of Haloxylon ammodendron in the arid desert area of northwestern China', ['Guojun Liu', 'Jinling Lv', 'Ximing Zhang'], u'2016-03-29', u'Natural vegetation in arid desert areas has been severely affected by uneven spatial-temporal precipitation and underground water distribution. Therefore, it is quite necessary to reserve maintenance water sources and water utilization strategies of natural vegetation. In our experiment, the Haloxylon ammodendron was selected to learn about the maintenance water sources and water utilization strategies. The results displayed that H. ammodendron could utilize various water sources, in which groundwater (30%) and shallow soil water (average 35%) accounted for very huge proportion to be the most important maintenance water sources H. ammodendron does not directly absorb from snowfall, but the application of shallow soil water was stemed from melt snow. The utilization percentage of groundwater is relatively higher in winter (80%) and summer (30%). The utilization percentages of different water sources change with the actual situations of these water sources; Precipitation is also one of main water sources of H. ammodendron (respond quickly but not influential). The mainly water of  H. ammodendron in the study area are as follows: groundwater, shallow soil water formed by snowmelt, medium and large precipitation. Therefore, H. ammodendron can make efficient use of water sources in arid desert areas, and transform water sources reasonably under the tremendous variations in water conditions to meet the water requirements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1905/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Desert and Oasis Ecology, Xinjiang Institute of Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Cele National Station of Observation and Research for Desert-Grassland Ecosystem, Xinjiang Institute of Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Key Laboratory of Biogeography and Bioresource in Arid Land, Xinjiang Institute of Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'A time-series analysis of relevant pollutants in Hamilton (Ontario) and induced mortality', ['Yu Fan Zeng', 'Adree Khondker'], u'2016-03-29', u'The relationship between air pollution and public health has gained increasing attention in the past decade. Many time-series analyses have been conducted worldwide, including in all the major cities of the United States, Europe, and Asia. However, the most current time-series analysis study of Ontario, Canada dates back to 2012 and includes only a single city, calling the need of a more recent study at a provincial scale. As a result, we propose to conduct time-series analyses of major Ontario cities and then use a hierarchical model to pool the results and construct a dose-response relationship and generate a predictive regression.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1904/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Epidemiology'], [u'Bachelor of Health Sciences, Faculty of Health Sciences, McMaster University']]
[u'Multifarious native plant growth promoting fluorescent pseudomonads associated with rhizosphere of Aloe barbadensis miller', ['Anuradha Rai', 'Pradeep K Rai', 'Jay S Singh', 'Surendra Singh'], u'2016-03-29', u'Medicinal plants provide an enormous bioresource of potential use in modern medicine and agriculture. Phosphorous deficiency is a major constraint to plant production. Sustainable agriculture could be promoted by harnessing the plant beneficial bacteria particularly the fluorescent pseudomonads associated with the rhizosphere of plants, to mobilize soil inorganic phosphate and also to increase its bioavailability to the plants. Total five hundred seven fluorescent Pseudomonas isolates were obtained from four different Aloe barbadensis (Miller) growing locations of Varanasi. These Pseudomonas strains were further evaluated in vitro for their ability to solubilize phosphate and to produce indole acetic acid (IAA), hydrogen cyanide (HCN), siderophore and aminocyclopropane (ACC) deaminase. Total 119 fluorescent Pseudomonas isolates from the rhizospheric soil (RS) and 25 isolates from the endorhizosperic (ER) region solubilized phosphate.Whereas 53 (36.8%) Pseudomonas isolates produced IAA and siderophore, 36(25%) and 31 (21.5%) isolates, however, produced HCN and ACC deaminase. Out of 119 phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) from RS region, 51 (42.9%) isolates and 9 (36%) isolates out of 25 PSBs from ER region lacked plant growth promoting traits (PGPTs). Among the phosphate solubilizing fluorescent pseudomonads showing PGPT, 59 isolates have multiple traits and showed more than two types of PGPT. A positive correlation exists between siderophore and ACC deaminase producers. Clustering by principal component analysis (PCA) showed that RS was the most important factor influencing the ecological distribution and physiological characterization of PGPT- possessing PSB. Geographical Information System (GIS) and Kriging Interpolation method was used to map and establish spatial variation of soil properties of the study site.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1903/', ['Mycology', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'Department of Botany, Banaras Hindu University', u'Department of Environmental Microbiology, Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar (Central) University']]
[u'Method of discovery of effective components in herbals based on evidence by reversed-directed analysis', ['Jianyi Zhang'], u'2016-03-29', u'Conventional methods in this field include identifying and screening compounds in a laboratory setting with cells and animals, and then moving on to clinical trials with promising compounds. To complicate the issue with these methods, effective compounds might not exist in the original herbals, multiple components might be involved with outcomes, long study period and high cost. The method described above might bypass bottlenecks such as, 1) promising compounds are identified from test patients who demonstrate preferred and safe results, 2) more than one compound might be identified, 3) safe and effective compounds might be metabolites and not exist in herbals. The process includes a website to collect clinical information. The promising compounds can be determined by analyzing common components from patients. Both internal and external tests could be done with promising compounds, the entire process would be very efficient and economical.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1902/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Drugs and Devices'], [u'Self employed physician, Ace Care']]
[u'VERVENet: the viral ecology research and virtual exchange network', ['Lori J Kindler', 'Alexei Stoliartchouk', 'Celina Gomez', 'James Thornton', 'Leonid Teytelman', 'Bonnie L Hurwitz'], u'2016-03-29', u'The advent of metagenomic methods to sequence DNA directly from an environment has revolutionized viral ecology, making it possible to \u201csee\u201d natural viral communities that could not be previously studied through culture. This technological leap has enabled further innovation in: extracting and sequencing limited viral DNA from communities, enriching and sequencing wild viruses through single-cell genomics, and creating new bioinformatics methods for large-scale comparative and functional metagenomics. Yet, the knowledge for specialized techniques in viral ecology remains in a subset of labs. We present a viral ecology community forum called VERVENet that strives to increase connectivity and knowledge dissemination in viral ecology research at all levels from undergraduates to accomplished viral ecologists. Our forum leverages and refines existing software from protocols.io to enhance a researcher\u2019s ability to: discuss and share protocols, connect with fellow community members, and learn about new and innovative research in the field. In delivering these valuable tools, VERVENet is a central resource to connect, collaborate, share and innovate for the viral ecology community. Moreover, these tools are broadly useful to any community or individual lab to promote scientific inquiry, reproduction of results, and dissemination and optimization of both molecular and bioinformatics protocols.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1901/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering, University of Arizona', u'protocols.io']]
[u'The enveomics collection: a toolbox for specialized analyses of microbial genomes and metagenomes', ['Luis M Rodriguez-R', 'Konstantinos T Konstantinidis'], u'2016-03-27', u'Genomic and metagenomic analyses are increasingly becoming commonplace in several areas of biological research, but recurrent specialized analyses are frequently reported as in-house scripts rarely available after publication. We describe the enveomics collection, a growing set of actively maintained scripts for several recurrent and specialized tasks in microbial genomics and metagenomics, and present a graphical user interface and several case studies. Our resource includes previously described as well as new algorithms such as Transformed-space Resampling In Biased Sets (TRIBS), a novel method to evaluate phylogenetic under- or over-dispersion in reference sets with strong phylogenetic bias. The enveomics collection is freely available under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0 at https://github.com/lmrodriguezr/enveomics and for online analysis at http://enve-omics.ce.gatech.edu', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1900/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology', u'Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Genomics, Georgia Institute of Technology', u'School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'Incorporation of an invasive plant into a native insect herbivore food web', ['Menno Schilthuizen', 'Lucia P Santos Pimenta', 'Youri Lammers', 'Peter J Steenbergen', 'Marco Flohil', 'Nils G.P. Beveridge', 'Pieter T van Duijn', 'Marjolein M Meulblok', 'Nils Sosef', 'Robin van de Ven', 'Ralf Werring', 'Kevin K Beentjes', 'Kim Meijer', 'Rutger A Vos', 'Klaas Vrieling', 'Barbara Gravendeel', 'Young Choi', 'Robert Verpoorte', 'Chris Smit', 'Leo W Beukeboom'], u'2016-03-26', u'The integration of invasive species into native food webs represent multifarious dynamics of ecological and evolutionary processes. We document incorporation of Prunus serotina (black cherry) into native insect food webs. We find that P. serotina harbours a herbivore community less dense but more diverse than its native relative, P. padus (bird cherry), with similar proportions of specialists and generalists. While herbivory on P. padus remained stable over the past century, that on P. serotina gradually doubled. We show that P. serotina may have evolved changes in investment in cyanogenic glycosides compared with its native range. In the leaf beetle Gonioctena quinquepunctata, recently shifted from native Sorbus aucuparia to P. serotina, we find divergent host preferences on Sorbus- versus Prunus-derived populations, and weak host-specific differentiation among 380 individuals genotyped for 119 SNP loci. We conclude that evolutionary processes may generate a specialized herbivore community on an invasive plant, allowing prognoses of reduced invasiveness over time. On the basis of the results presented here, we would like to caution that manual control might have the adverse effect of a slowing down of processes of adaptation, and a delay in the decline of the invasive character of P. serotina.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1899/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science'], [u'Endless Forms group, Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute for Biology Leiden, Leiden University', u'Groningen Institute for Evolutionary Life Sciences, University of Groningen', u'Departamento de Qu\xedmica, Instituto de Ci\xeancias Exatas, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais', u'ServiceXS', u'University of Applied Sciences Leiden', u'Biodiversity Discovery group, Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'IBED, University of Amsterdam', u'Natural Products Laboratory, Leiden University']]
[u"Predictive analytics in practice: A novel simulation application for addressing patient flow challenges in today's emergency departments", ['Joshua E Hurwitz', 'Kenneth K Lopiano', 'Thomas F Bohrmann', 'Wendy Swan', 'Michael Falgiani', 'J Adrian Tyndall'], u'2016-03-25', u"Objectives: To develop a flexible software application that uses predictive analytics to enable emergency department (ED) decision-makers in virtually any environment to predict the effects of operational interventions and enhance continual process improvement efforts. To demonstrate the ability of the application's core simulation model to recreate and predict site-specific patient flow in two very different EDs: a large academic center and a freestanding ED. To describe how the application was used by a freestanding ED medical director to match ED resources to patient demand.\nMethods: The application was developed through a public-private partnership between University of Florida Health and Roundtable Analytics, Inc., supported by a National Science Foundation Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) grant. The core simulation technology was designed to be quickly adaptable to any ED using data routinely collected by most electronic health record systems. To demonstrate model accuracy, Monte Carlo studies were performed to predict the effects of management interventions in two distinct ED settings. At one ED, the medical director conducted simulation studies to evaluate the sustainability of the current staffing strategy and inform his decision to implement specific interventions that better match ED resources to patient demand. After implementation of one intervention, the fidelity of the model's predictions was evaluated.\nResults: A flexible, cloud-based software application enabling ED decision-makers to predict the effects of operational decisions was developed and deployed at two qualitatively distinct EDs. The application accurately recreated each ED's throughput and faithfully predicted the effects of specific management interventions. At one site, the application was used to identify when increasing arrivals will dictate that the current staffing strategy will be less effective than an alternative strategy. As actual arrivals approached this point, decision-makers used the application to simulate a variety different interventions; this directly informed their decision to implement a new strategy. The observed outcomes resulting from this intervention fell within the range of predictions from the model.\nConclusion: This application overcomes technical barriers that have made simulation modeling inaccessible to key decision-makers in emergency departments. Using this technology, ED managers with no programming experience can conduct customized simulation studies regardless of their ED's volume and complexity. In two very different case studies, the fidelity of the application was established and the application was shown to have a direct positive effect on patient flow. The effective use of simulation modeling promises to replace inefficient trial-and-error approaches and become a useful and accessible tool for hea", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1891/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Statistics'], [u'Emergency Medicine, University of Florida', u'Roundtable Analytics, Inc.']]
[u'Time-variant species pools shape competitive dynamics and diversity-ecosystem function relationships in pitcher plant bacterial communities', ['Dave W Armitage'], u'2016-03-25', u'Biodiversity-ecosystem function (BEF) experiments often employ common garden designs, drawing samples from a local biota. However, the communities from which taxa are sampled may not be at equilibrium. I assembled pools of aquatic bacterial strains isolated at different time points from leaves on the pitcher plant Darlingtonia californica to evaluate the role of a dynamic, host-associated microbiota on the BEF relationship. I constructed experimental communities using bacteria from each time point and measured their respiration rates. Communities assembled from mid-successional species pools showed the strongest positive relationships between community richness and respiration rates, driven primarily by linear additivity among isolates. Diffuse competition was common among all communities but greatest within mid-successional isolates. These results demonstrate the dependence of the BEF relationship on the temporal dynamics of the local species pool, implying that ecosystems may respond differently to the addition or removal of taxa at different points in time during succession.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1897/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'What are the possible determinants of urinary incontinence during pregnancy? Results of a pilot study', ['Nejat Demircan', 'Ulku Ozmen', 'Furuzan Kokturk', 'Hamdi Kucuk', 'Sevket Ata', 'Muge Harma', 'Ilker  Arikan'], u'2016-03-25', u'Objectives: This study was conducted to determine the frequency, predisposing factors and impact of urinary incontinence (UI)during pregnancyon quality of life (QOL). Materials and Method: A preliminary cross-sectional survey was carried out among pregnant women from January to June of 2014. A total of 132 pregnant women were enrolled. We used a questionnaire form for sociodemographic features, ICIQ-SF-Turkish version to determine the occurrence and characteristics of UI and Wagner\u2019s Quality of Life scale to assess impact on QOL. Results: Urinary incontinence was present in 56 out of 132 pregnant women (42.4%); these women were referred to as the UI-present group. The remaining 76 women comprised the UI-absent group. The overall mean age was 27.5 \xb1 5.1 y (p=0.780), median height in UI-present group was 160 cm (min-max: 153-176, p=0.037 <0.05) and median BMI was 28.7 kg/m2(min-max: 22.4-50.0, p=0.881).For women in the UI-present group, urine leakage occurred once a week (n=18, 32.1%) to twice or thrice a week (n=8, 14.3%), few times a day (n=14, 25%), once a day (n=5, 8.9%) and always (n=8, 14.3%). The pregnant women in the UI-present group mainly reported a small amount of urine leakage (n=33, 58.9%) or a moderate amount of leakage (n=4, 7.1%). There were statistically significant relationships between QOL scores and frequency of UI (p=0.002 <0.05) as well as the amount of leakage (p=0.002 <0.05). Impact on QOL scores ranged from mild (n=33, 58.9%) or moderate (n=4, 7.1%) to severe (n=4, 7.1%) levels. QOL has \u2018mildly deteriorated\u2019. The following features were found to favour the onset of UI: age of pregnant woman (OR= 0.845, 95% CI 0.268-2.669), occupational status (OR=1.800, 95% CI 0.850-3.810), anaemia (OR=0.939, 95% CI 0.464-1.901), parity (OR=0.519, 95% CI 0.325-0.829), miscarriage in previous pregnancies (OR=1.219, 95% CI 0.588-2.825) and living in rural vs urban settlement (OR=1.800, 95% CI 0.887-3.653).Heigt (p= 0,037<0.05), educational status (p=0.016 <0.05), miscarriage, parity and place of living (p=0.002, p=0.006, p=0.020 <0.05 respectively)were significant in favour of UI-present. Conclusions: Urinary incontinence was frequently encountered among pregnant women (42.1%). Urinary incontinence distorted the QOL in pregnant women at a mild level and caused life style changes. Frequency and amount of UI were the significant factors in deterioration. Age, parity, miscarriage, being housewife, place of living (rural) and anaemia were the factors in favour of onset of UI during pregnancy. Among them, height, educational status (primary-intermediate school graduate), place of living (rural), miscarriage and parity were statistically significant predictors. It is necessary to pay attention to UI and its impact on women\u2019s health during pregnancy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1898/', ['Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Nursing', 'Urology', "Women's Health"], [u'Faculty of Medicine Department of Family Medicine, B\xfclent Ecevit University', u'Faculty of Medicine Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, B\xfclent Ecevit University', u'Faculty of Medicine Department of Biostatistics, B\xfclent Ecevit University', u'Faculty of Science and Literature, B\xfclent Ecevit University']]
[u'First documented record of the Belted Kingfisher Megaceryle alcyon (Linnaeus, 1758) in mainland Ecuador', ['Diego F Cisneros-Heredia'], u'2016-03-25', u'I present the first documented record of the Belted Kingfisher Megaceryle alcyon in mainland Ecuador. A young male M. alcyon was observed and photographed on the surroundings of Puerto L\xf3pez, province of Manab\xed, Ecuador in September 2005. A very rare vagrant in mainland Ecuador, M. alcyon was previously known from a single sighting in December 1995. In the absence of strong evidence for the occurrence of M. alcyon in mainland Ecuador, it remains classified as a hypothetical species in all country\u2019s ornithological reference, pending corroborating evidence, which is now provided.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1896/', ['Biodiversity', 'Zoology'], [u'Colegio de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas y Ambientales COCIBA, Laboratorio de Zoolog\xeda Terrestre, Universidad San Francisco de Quito', u'Aves y Conservaci\xf3n / BirdLife Ecuador', u'Museo Ecuatoriano de Ciencias Naturales del Instituto Nacional de Biodiversidad', u"Department of Geography, King's College London, University of London"]]
[u'VESPA: Very large-scale Evolutionary and Selective Pressure Analyses', ['Andrew E. Webb', 'Thomas A. Walsh', "Mary J O'Connell"], u'2016-03-25', u'Large-scale molecular evolutionary analyses of protein coding sequences requires a number of preparatory inter-related steps from finding gene families, to generating alignments and phylogenetic trees and assessing selective pressure variation. Each phase of these analyses can represent significant challenges particularly when working with the entire genome of large sets of species. We present VESPA, software capable of automating a selective pressure analysis using codeML in addition to the preparatory analyses and summary statistics. VESPA is written in python and is designed to run within a UNIX environment. Large-scale gene family identification, sequence alignment, and phylogeny reconstruction are all important aspects of large-scale molecular evolutionary analyses. VESPA provides flexible software for simplifying these processes along with downstream selective pressure variation analyses. The software automatically interprets results from codeML and produces simplified summary files to assist the user in better understanding the results. VESPA may be found at the following website: www.mol-evol.org/VESPA', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1895/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Bioinformatics and Molecular Evolution Group, School of Biotechnology, Faculty of Science and Health, Dublin City University', u'Computational and Molecular Evolutionary Biology, School of Biology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, The University of Leeds']]
[u'Holistic approach for conservation of chimpanzees in Kibale National Park, Uganda', ['Emily Otali', 'Jessica A Hartel', 'Zarin Machanda', 'Richard W Wrangham', 'Elizabeth A Ross'], u'2016-03-24', u'Uganda\u2019s Kibale National Park contains a particularly diverse primate population, including about 1400 chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). It is threatened by poaching and illegal deforestation, both of which are promoted by the extreme poverty, exponential population growth, and low educational achievements of local people. This poster describes a multifaceted approach to conservation taken by the Kibale Chimpanzee Project. We highlight its within-forest organization (Kibale Snare Removal Project, KSRP) and its partner NGO working with 10,000 children in the surrounding communities (The Kasiisi Project). Within the Park, KSRP rangers interact closely with the Ugandan Wildlife Authority to monitor illegal activity. In 2013 KSRP rangers reported over 1400 incidents of illegal activity in the forest and removed over 700 snares. Outside the Park, the Kasiisi Project focuses on changing attitudes and behavior through combining conservation education, community development, and higher standards in 14 primary schools. The Kasiisi Project\u2019s philosophy is to meet people\u2019s needs (better education, less reliance on forest resources) while providing the information, skills and motivation to reduce environmental degradation. KSRP rangers link within-forest and community activities by participating in school conservation education. Since we began, students in Kasiisi-partnered schools have achieved exceptionally high National Exam scores and show increased positive feelings towards chimpanzees and the Park. Our results suggest that because the rising human population threatens all Ugandan forests, within-forest and community activity should be combined wherever possible in order to maximize the effectiveness of conservation efforts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1894/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Kibale Chimpanzee Project', u'Kibale Forest Schools Program', u'Kibale Snare Removal Program', u'Project Chimps Sanctuary', u'Kasiisi Project', u'Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University']]
[u'Evaluating the assessment metrics of the Integrated Cognitive Simulator\u2019s laparoscopic appendicectomy module', ['Dylan A Mordaunt', 'John A Windsor', 'Benjamin Loveday'], u'2016-03-23', u'Background: Simtics Integrated Cognitive Simulator (ICS) is a software learning environment, previously demonstrated to be of use to surgical trainees in learning the cognitive aspects of procedural skills. It also includes a Test-Mode, which has not previously been assessed for its ability to discriminate between experienced and non-experienced operators. Methods: 10 experienced and 10 non-experienced participants performed a laparoscopic appendicectomy using the ICS laparoscopic appendicectomy (LA) module. Total score, total time, and four further metrics (incorrect hand, incorrect instrument, incorrect location, time > 15s per step) were recorded for each individual, across the four sections and nine steps of the simulation. Results: Median total score was greater amongst surgically experienced participants than surgically inexperienced participants (26.5 %, p = 0.023). Instrument use was a significant discriminator between these groups in 2 of 4 of the ICS LA sections.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1893/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Precision Health Aotearoa Ltd.', u'Department of Paediatrics, University of Auckland', u'Department of Surgery, University of Auckland', u'Department of Surgery, Auckland District Health Board']]
[u'Does stature or wingspan length have a positive effect on competitor rankings or attainment of world title bouts in international and elite mixed martial arts?', ['Christopher Kirk'], u'2016-03-22', u'Background: Whilst most anthropometrical research within sport has focussed on muscle and fat distribution, more studies are measuring the relationship between stature and wingspan, which has been found to be selective criteria in many sports.\nMethods: In this study the stature, wingspan and stature-to-wingspan ratio (S:W) was recorded for N = 474 elite and international mixed martial arts (MMA) competitors who appeared in televised bouts over the course of one calendar year. Each weight division was split into three or four ranking groups (RG) depending on division size, as well as into groups depending on if the competitors had won a world title (Ch), competed for a world title (El) or had done neither (In).\nResults: One-way ANOVA (\u22640.05) found that shorter competitors are ranked higher in flyweight and in the middle in women\u2019s straw weight. Independent t-tests (\u22640.05) found that shorter competitors also have more chance of winning or competing for a world title in featherweight and flyweight. Independent t-tests (\u22640.05) also found a significant difference between males and female for S:W. There was a weak, negative correlation and a moderate, negative correlation between stature and rank in lightweight and light heavyweight respectively and a moderate, negative correlation between S:W and rank in featherweight. There were no other significant differences found.\nDiscussion: Overall, whilst MMA competitors have a S:W of 1:1.024, due to the paucity of significant differences found, it was determined that anthropometrical measurements cannot be used to predict success in elite and international mixed martial arts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1892/', ['Anthropology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Statistics'], [u'Human Performance Centre, Burnley College']]
[u'Perception of the risk of adverse reactions to analgesics: Differences between medical students and residents', ['Sandra Castillo-Guzman', 'Omar Gonzalez-Santiago', 'Ismael A Delgado-Leal', 'Gerardo E Lozano-Luevano', 'Misael J Reyes-Rodriguez', 'Cesar V Elizondo-Solis', 'Teresa A Nava-Obregon', 'Dionicio Palacios-Rios'], u'2016-03-22', u'Background. Medications are not exempt from adverse drug reactions (ADR) and how the physician perceives the risk of prescription drugs could influence their availability to report ADR and their prescription behavior. Methods. We assess the perception of risk and the occurrence of ADR associated with COX2-Inbitors, paracetamol, NSAIDs, and morphine in medical students and residents. Results. The analgesic with the highest risk perception was morphine, while the drug with the least risk perceived was paracetamol. Addiction was perceived as the most probable adverse effects developed by morphine. In the case of NSAIDs, the main adverse effect perceived was GI bleeding. Discussion. Our findings show that medical students give higher risk scores than residents toward risk due to analgesics. It is probable that both groups of students have morphinophobia, although more studies are necessary to confirm this. Continuing training and informing physicians about ADRs is necessary since the lack of training is known to induce inadequate use of drugs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1890/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Pharmacology', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Pain and Palliative care clinic, Anesthesiology Service, University Hospital Dr Jose E Gonzalez, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Nuevo Le\xf3n', u'Posgraduate Division of the Faculty of Chemical Science, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Nuevo Le\xf3n']]
[u'Variation in energy intake of female chimpanzees: comparing estimates based on feeding time versus energy ingestion rates', ['Moreen Uwimbabazi', 'Richard W Wrangham', 'Zarin P Machanda', 'Nancy L Conklin-Brittain', 'Jessica M Rothman', 'Gilbert I Basuta'], u'2016-03-22', u'Different food items can provide calories at different rates, yet nutritional studies of primates are generally based on the proportion of time spent eating different foods. Accordingly, estimates of energy intake are potentially wrong. To assess the importance of this problem we observed 15 female chimpanzees from the Kanyawara chimpanzee community in Kibale National Park, Uganda for 15 months. Feeding rates were recorded and nutritional analyses assembled for 90 food types. Across all foods the mean estimated rate of energy ingestion was 8.8\xb17.6 Kcals/min. Energy ingestion rates varied among food types (F8,82,=2.24, p<0.05), being higher for ripe fruits (12.2\xb18.7Kcals/min) than for young leaves (7.8\xb17.9Kcals/min), piths (6.0\xb15.2Kcals/min) or seeds (2.8\xb11.9Kcals/min). Energy ingestion rates estimated assuming high %NDF fermentation (54.3%) were significantly higher than the rates at zero (0%) fermentation (t=6.14, p<0.01). At 54.3% NDF fermentation, estimated energy ingestion rate rose by 20.5% for ripe fruits (9.7 to 12.2 Kcals/min), and by 39.7% for young leaves (4.7 to 7.8Kcals/min). Chimpanzees spent a mean of 304\xb180 minutes feeding daily, indicating that daily energy intake averaged to 3029 \xb11198Kcal. When chimpanzees spent >60% of feeding time on ripe fruits (N=79 days), the average energy intake (3367Kcal) was significantly higher than when they spent >60% of feeding time on herbaceous vegetation (2409Kcal, N=37 days) (F1,114=12.68, p<0.01). Our results highlight the value of using feeding rates to understand chimpanzee nutrition, and suggest that seasonal fluctuation in nutrient intake is more pronounced than indicated by variation in feeding time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1877/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Zoology/College of Natural Sciences, Makerere University', u'Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University', u'Kibale Chimpanzee Project', u'Department of Anthropology, Hunter College of the City University of New York', u'New York Consortium in Evolutionary Primatology']]
[u'Depression, anxiety, and stress in partners of Australian combat veterans and military personnel: A comparison with Australian population norms', ['Gail V MacDonell', 'Navjot Bhullar', 'Einar B Thorsteinsson'], u'2016-03-22', u'Partners of Australian combat veterans are at an increased risk of experiencing mental health problems. For a comparative analysis of mental health of partners of veterans with that of their non-military counterparts, the study sample comprised female partners of (a) Australian combat veterans (Sample 1: n = 282, age M = 60.79, SD = 5.05), (b) a random sub-sample of partners of Australian combat veterans from the previous sample (Sample 2: n = 50; M = 60.06, SD = 4.80), (c) partners of Special Air Services Regiment (SASR) personnel (Sample 3: n = 41, age M = 34.39 SD = 7.01), and (d) partners of current serving military (non-SASR) personnel (Sample 4: n = 38, age M = 32.37, SD= [i]6.20). Respondents completed measures to assess their reported levels of depression, anxiety, and stress. The two samples (Samples 1 and 2) for partners of Australian combat veterans reported significantly poorer symptoms of depression, anxiety, and stress than the comparative population norms. The sample of SASR personnel partners reported significantly greater levels of depression and anxiety, while the sample with non\u2011SASR personnel partners reported a significantly poorer symptomatology in stress than the comparative norms. Lessons and protective factors can be learnt from groups within the current military as to what may assist partners and families to maintain a better level of psychosocial health.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1876/', ['Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Nursing', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Psychology / School of Behavioural, Cognitive and Social Sciences, University of New England']]
[u'An empirical study on principles and practices of continuous delivery and deployment', ['Gerald Schermann', 'Jurgen Cito', 'Philipp Leitner', 'Uwe Zdun', 'Harald Gall'], u'2016-03-22', u'Despite substantial recent research activity related to continuous delivery and deployment (CD), there has not yet been a systematic, empirical study on how the practices often associated with continuous deployment have found their way into the broader software industry. This raises the question to what extent our knowledge of the area is dominated by the peculiarities of a small number of industrial leaders, such as Facebook. To address this issue, we conducted a mixed-method empirical study, consisting of a pre-study on literature, qualitative interviews with 20 software developers or release engineers with heterogeneous backgrounds, and a Web-based quantitative survey that attracted 187 complete responses. A major trend in the results of our study is that architectural issues are currently one of the main barriers for CD adoption. Further, feature toggles as an implementation technique for partial rollouts lead to unwanted complexity, and require research on better abstractions and modelling techniques for runtime variability. Finally, we conclude that practitioners are in need for more principled approaches to release decision making, e.g., which features to conduct A/B tests on, or which metrics to evaluate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1889/', ['World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Software Evolution and Architecture Lab, University of Zurich', u'Research Group Software Architecture, University of Vienna']]
[u'Presbyopia in old wild bonobos (Pan paniscus)', ['Heungjin Ryu', 'Kirsty E. Graham', 'Tetsuya Sakamaki', 'Takeshi Furuichi'], u'2016-03-22', u'Presbyopia, or long-sightedness, is one of the signs of senescence in humans. Many people first recognize it when they approach 40-years-old, though presbyopia progresses gradually with age. Not surprisingly, presbyopia has been reported in old, wild chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) at Bossou (Guinea) and Mahale (Tanzania). Bonobos are one of our closest living relatives (98.7% identical in genome level) and like us have long development periods and long longevity. We therefore expected to find presbyopia in bonobos. Here we report evidence of presbyopia in wild bonobos at Wamba, Democratic Republic of Congo, during grooming interactions. We used an interchangeable-lens camera to make precise measurements of ear dimensions for each individual, which we then used to determine grooming distance. Age estimates for older individuals were taken when the group was first identified in the late 1970s to early 1980s. We found that grooming distance increases with age. All four bonobos that showed symptoms of presbyopia, i.e. long grooming distance, were estimated to be over 40 years old in 2015. We confirmed that when grooming others, the 4 older individuals kept significantly longer distance between their hands and eyes than did younger individuals. This result indicates that bonobos begin to experience presbyopia in their 40s as do human beings.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1888/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Primate Research Institute of Kyoto Univeristy', u'School of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of St. Andrews']]
[u'Geometric model of image formation in Scheimpflug cameras', ['Indranil Sinharoy', 'Prasanna Rangarajan', 'Marc P. Christensen'], u'2016-03-22', u'We present a geometric model of image formation in Scheimpflug cameras that is most general. Scheimpflug imaging is commonly used is scientific and medical imaging either to increase the depth of field of the imager or to focus on tilted object surfaces. Existing Scheimpflug imaging models do not take into account the effect of pupil magnification (i.e. the ratio of the exit pupil diameter to the entrance pupil diameter), which we have found to affect the type of distortions experienced by the image-field upon lens rotations. In this work, we have also derived the relationship between the object, lens and sensor planes in Scheimpflug configuration, which is very similar in form with the standard Gaussian imaging equation, but applicable for imaging systems in which the lens plane and the sensor plane are arbitrarily oriented with respect to each other. Since the conventional rigid camera, in which the sensor and lens planes are constrained to be parallel to each other, is a special case of the Scheimpflug camera, our model also applies to imaging with conventional cameras.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1887/', ['Computer Vision', 'Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'Electrical Engineering, Southern Methodist University']]
[u'rotl, an R package to interact with the Open Tree of Life data', ['Francois Michonneau', 'Joseph W. Brown', 'David Winter'], u'2016-03-22', u'While phylogenies have been getting easier to build, it has been difficult to re-use, combine, and synthesize the information they provide because published trees are often only available as image files, and taxonomic information is not standardized across studies. The Open Tree of Life (OTL) project addresses these issues by providing a digital tree that encompasses all organisms, built by combining taxonomic information and published phylogenies. The project also provides tools and services to query and download parts of this synthetic tree, as well as the source data used to build it. Here, we present rotl, an R package to search and download data from the Open Tree of Life directly in R. rotl uses common data structures allowing researchers to take advantage of the rich set of tools and methods that are available in R to manipulate, analyze, and visualize phylogenies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1471/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Computational Science'], [u'Whitney Laboratory of Marine Bioscience, University of Florida', u'Division of Invertebrate Zoology, Florida Museum of Natural History', u'Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor', u'Arizona State University']]
[u'Reef manta ray life history and demography: is it really all about survival?', ['Isabel M Smallegange', 'Isabelle BC van der Ouderaa', 'Yara Tibirica'], u'2016-03-21', u'Background. The trade in gill plates of devil and manta rays has increased greatly over the last two decades. The resulting increased mortality, in addition to mortality caused by by-catch, means that many ray populations are declining in size. The aim of this study was to ascertain the main demographic drivers of population change in reef manta rays (Manta alfredi) to increase our understanding of their demography and hence provide insight into potential conservation measures.\nMethods. We developed a population projection model for reef manta rays and used published life history data to parameterise the model and also used these data as points of reference to compare our model output to. Because little is known about yearling and juvenile survival of reef manta rays, we conducted our analyses across a range of plausible survival rate values of yearlings, juveniles, and also adults.\nResults. The model accurately captured observed patterns of variation in population growth rate, lifetime reproductive success and cohort generation time for different reef manta ray populations around the world. Varying the survival rates of the different life stages revealed that increasing adult annual survival rate always positively and additively affected population growth rate, lifetime reproductive success and cohort generation time. Variation in yearling and juvenile annual survival rate, however, had different and varying effects on the latter three population descriptors, highlighting the importance of obtaining accurate estimates of these survival rates from natural populations. Our elasticity analysis revealed that for both declining and stable populations, the population growth rate is most sensitive to changes in either juvenile or adult survival rate, depending on yearling and adult annual survival rate values.\nDiscussion. Many reef manta ray populations are declining, resulting in local extinction unless effective conservation measures are taken. Based on our detailed demographic analysis, we suggest that reef manta ray conservation would particularly benefit from focusing on increasing juvenile and adult survival.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1886/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics, University of Amsterdam', u'Zavora Marine Lab., Association of Coastal Conservation of Mozambique']]
[u'Evidence that St. Helena island is an important multi-use habitat for whale sharks, Rhincodon typus, with the first description of putative mating in this species', ['Elizabeth Clingham', 'Judith Brown', 'Leeann Henry', 'Annalea Beard', 'Alistair D Dove'], u'2016-03-21', u'Preliminary observations of whale shark behavioural ecology are presented from St. Helena, a remote volcanic island in the South Atlantic. Whale shark sightings by fishers, government biologists and the general public have been recorded by the St. Helena Government since February 1999 and are presented here through to the end of 2014. A total of 328 sightings was collected on an ad hoc basis, a total of 931 animals, although the number of re-sightings within that total is not known. Increases in observations are likely coincident with increases in surveillance and public awareness of the presence of this species in the waters surrounding St Helena. On two occasions, small aggregations of whale sharks were observed at the bay at Jamestown; the animals were engaged in surface feeding behaviour similar to that seen in coastal aggregations in Mexico and Qatar. In contrast to other aggregations, however, animals observed at St Helena were numerically dominated by adult females, although mature males and some juveniles have also been observed. On two occasions, eyewitness accounts of mating behaviour were reported by two different reliable observers. These events took place in 2005 and 2007, both approximately 16 kilometers from shore, at different sites. They both involved belly-to-belly contact behaviour at the surface, in one case involving at least two males. This is the first report of putative mating behaviour in the whale shark. With the presence of both adult and juvenile animals, surface feeding aggregations, apparently pregnant females and the first observations of putative mating, the waters around St Helena are clearly an important multi-use habitat for whale sharks and are worthy of concerted conservation efforts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1885/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Environmental and Natural Resources Directorate, St Helena Government', u'Research and Conservation Department, Georgia Aquarium']]
[u'Injury surveillance in a rural sub-Saharan setting: Results from a surveillance initiative in Nzega District, Tanzania', ['Laura Davis', 'Alyssa Bechtold', 'Marc Kaeraa', 'Lukas Lacava', 'Michael L. Wilson'], u'2016-03-21', u'Introduction: Ninety percent of all injuries occur in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC) and most of these injuries are largely preventable. Most injury surveillance systems are focused in large urban settings, which largely ignore injury mechanisms in rural contexts which are critical settings for planning future prevention efforts. Methods: Injury data was collected from July 1 to July 31, 2013 at Nzega District Hospital (NDH) in central Tanzania in the form of an injury questionnaire based off of the WHO\u2019s injury surveillance guidelines. One hundred patients were enrolled and asked questions about the location of their injury, cause of their injury, and many other contextual and demographic factors. Results: Seventy-nine percent of participants were males and the most prevalent injury cause for all participants was road traffic collisions, making up 31% of the injuries. Violence was the second most prevalent cause, accounting for 28% of the injuries, and the number one cause of injuries for women. Twenty-three percent (n=7) of patients suffering from injuries due to road traffic collisions were given a prognosis of long-term disability of six months or more. Forty-four percent of all injuries occurred in the home setting. Conclusion: The incidence rate of injuries overall of 346 per 10 000 per year is consistent with others studies conducted in LMICs and is higher than many infectious diseases that are already considered a pressing public health problem. Injuries create disabilities, which in turn creates an economic burden on the individual, health care system, and society as a whole.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1884/', ['Global Health', 'Public Health'], [u'Centre for Injury Prevention and Community Safety (CIPCS)']]
[u'The association between coat phenotype and morphology conducive to high running speeds in canis lupus familiaris', ['Daniel J Cleather'], u'2016-03-20', u'The mechanics of animal locomotion has fascinated man for centuries. In particular, we have sought to understand why certain species are able to reach such prodigious running speeds (perhaps due to our woeful inadequacy in this area (Bramble & Lieberman, 2004)). Such investigations have focused on the role that functional anatomy and morphology play in facilitating the attainment of high running speeds (Williams, Payne & Wilson, 2007; Hudson et al., 2011). Canis lupus familiaris, or the domestic dog, serves as an excellent model for such investigations due to the great variation in running speeds exhibited across breeds, and there is a dense body of literature that has considered how the anatomy of certain canines has been adapted to the task of high speed running. Similarly, a great deal is known about the dog genome, and thus adaptations that are thought to be advantageous in the context of sprinting can be linked to their genetic basis (Mosher et al., 2007). Aerodynamics is one aspect of morphology that is known to be important for high speed running (Lull, 1904), yet despite this, the association between a dog\u2019s coat phenotype and the ability to run fast has not been determined. This omission is surprising given the influence of the surface properties of a body on its aerodynamics. Here I use the breed definitions of the American Kennel Club (American Kennel Club, 1998), to show, graphically, statistically and in prose, by reference to previous literature (Cadieu et al., 2009), and by using the mass/height ratio to indicate morphological adaptations for high speed running, that within the larger dog breeds (and in particular within breeds that are known for their running ability (Fischer & Lilje, 2011)), there is no association between coat phenotype and other morphological adaptations that are known to be conducive to high speed running (\u03c4B = -0.23, p = 0.04).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1883/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Developmental Biology', 'Zoology'], [u"School of Sport, Health and Applied Sciences, St Mary's University"]]
[u'Similarities between decapod and insect neuropeptidomes', ['Jan A Veenstra'], u'2016-03-20', u'Background. Neuropeptides are important regulators of physiological processes and behavior. Although they tend to be generally well conserved, recent results using trancriptome sequencing on decapod crustaceans give the impression of significant differences between species, raising the question whether such differences are real or artefacts.  Methods. The BLAST+ program was used to find short reads coding neuropeptides and neurohormons in publicly available short read archives. Such reads were then used to find similar reads in the same archives and the DNA assembly program Trinity was employed to construct contigs encoding the neuropeptide precursors as completely as possible.  Results. The seven decapod species analyzed in this fashion, the crabs Eriocheir sinensis, Carcinus maenas and Scylla paramamosain, the shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei, the lobster Homarus americanus, the fresh water prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii and the crayfish Procambarus clarkii had remarkably similar neuropeptidomes. Although some neuropeptide precursors could not be assembled, in many cases individual reads pertaining to the missing precursors show unambiguously that these neuropeptides are present in these species. In other cases the tissues that express those neuropeptides were not used in the construction of the cDNA libraries. One novel neuropeptide was identified, elongated PDH (pigment dispersing hormone), a variation on PDH that has a two amino acid insertion in its core sequence. Hyrg is another peptide that is ubiquitously present in decapods and is likely a novel neuropeptide precursor.  Discussion. Many insect species have lost one or more neuropeptide genes, but apart from elongated PDH and hyrg all other decapod neuropeptides are present in at least some insect species and allatotropin is the only insect neuropeptide missing from decapods. This strong similarity between insect and decapod neuropeptidomes makes it possible to predict the receptors for decapod neuropeptides that have been deorphanized in insects. This includes the androgenic insulin like peptide that seems to be homologous to drosophila insulin-like peptide 8.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1882/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Neuroscience', 'Zoology'], [u'Institut de Neurosciences Cognitives et Int\xe9gratives d\u2019Aquitaine (CNRS UMR5287), University of Bordeaux']]
[u'Eight open questions in the computational modeling of higher sensory cortex', ['Daniel LK Yamins', 'James J DiCarlo'], u'2016-03-20', u'Propelled by recent advances in biologically-inspired computer vision and artificial intelligence, the past five years have seen significant progress in using deep neural networks to model response patterns of neurons in higher visual cortical areas. In this paper, we briefly review this progress and then discuss eight key \u201copen questions\u201d that we believe will drive research in computational models of sensory systems over the next five years, both in visual cortex and beyond. Throughout, our focus is on challenges that will require both cutting-edge algorithmic developments as well as next-generation neuroscience and cognitive science experiments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1881/', ['Neuroscience', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology']]
[u'Preferred temperature and thermal breadth of birds wintering in peninsular Spain \u2013 the limited effect of temperature on species distribution', ['Luis M. Carrascal', 'Sara Villen-Perez', 'David Palomino'], u'2016-03-20', u'Background. Availability of environmental energy, as measured by temperature, is expected to limit the abundance and distribution of endotherms wintering at temperate latitudes. A prediction of this hypothesis is that birds should attain their highest abundances in warmer areas. However, there may be a spatial mismatch between species preferred habitats and species preferred temperatures, so some species might end-up wintering in sub-optimal thermal environments. Methods. We model the influence of minimum winter temperature on the relative abundance of 106 terrestrial bird species wintering in peninsular Spain, at 10x10 Km2 resolution, using 95%-quantile regressions. We analyze general trends across species on the shape of the response curves, the environmental preferred temperature (at which the species abundance is maximized), the mean temperature in the area of distribution and the thermal breadth (area under the abundance-temperature curve). Results. There is a large interspecific variability on the thermal preferences and specialization of species. Despite this large variability, there is a preponderance of positive relationships between species abundance and temperature, and on average species attain their maximum abundances in areas 1.9 \xbaC warmer than the average temperature available in peninsular Spain. The mean temperature in the area of distribution is lower than the thermal preferences of the species, although both parameters are highly correlated. Discussion. Most species prefer the warmest environments to overwinter, which suggests that temperature imposes important restrictions to birds wintering in the Iberian Peninsula. However, most individuals overwinter in locations colder than the species thermal preferences, probably reflecting a limitation of environments combining habitat and thermal preferences. Beyond these general trends, there is a high inter-specific variation in the versatility of species using the available thermal space .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1880/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biogeography and Global Change, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales', u'Departamento de Ecologia, Universidade Federal de Goi\xe1s', u'Wildlife Consultor']]
[u'BibeR: A Web-based tool for bibliometric analysis in scientific literature', ['Yang Liu', 'Meng Li'], u'2016-03-20', u'Bibliometric analysis is a statistical method to summarize the amount of scientific activity in a domain. Insights can be derived from bibliometrics to understand the development trend of the research domain. R is an open sourced programming language specialized for statistical computing and graphic visualization. To benefit from the convenience of R and the outcome of bibliometric analysis, we here introduce BibeR, a web-based application for the visualization of bibliometric analysis. An example of bibliometric analysis on the articles published in journal Scientometrics is used to illustrate the usage of BibeR. The development of BibeR is still in progress, and future possibly improvements on BibeR are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1879/', ['Digital Libraries', 'Graphics', 'Visual Analytics'], [u'Institute for Advanced Study, Shenzhen University', u'Key Laboratory of Optoelectronic Devices and Systems of Ministry of Education and Guangdong Province, College of Optoelectronic Engineering, Shenzhen University', u'Laboratoire \xe9cologie fonctionnelle et environnement (ECOLAB), Universit\xe9 Toulouse III - Paul Sabatier']]
[u'Behavior of biomarkers during pregnancy and lactation through a biological multi-paradigm model. BECOME study protocol', ['Maria Jose Aguilar-Cordero', 'Laura Baena-Garcia', 'Raquel Rodriguez-Blanque', 'Juan Carlos Sanchez-Garcia', 'Manuel Isidoro Capel-Tunon', 'Antonio Manuel Sanchez-Lopez'], u'2016-03-20', u'Background Despite of advances in research, at the moment, various points related to the physiology of gestation and the etiology of severe diseases that can be developed in the course of it remain unknown. One of those aspects is the behavior of biomarkers (triglycerides, prolactin, glucose and cholesterol) during pregnancy, which experience a gradual increase in their levels until they reach the peak of hypertriglyceridemia, a few days before delivery. Several studies have reported that biomarkers experience a higher elevation in diabetic and obese pregnant women and in those women who suffer preeclampsia. The description of their behavior in different population of pregnant women (healthy women and women at risk) would identify the relation of these with some of the alterations that occurs more frequently during pregnancy. Objective The aim of this study is to develop a multi-paradigm biological model of systems to determine triglyceride, prolactin, glucose and cholesterol levels during pregnancy and its relation with lactogenesis in healthy and risk pregnant women. Methods  A prospective cohort study will take place with women during pregnancy and lactation. Participating women will be divided into two groups. One group will be integrated by healthy women and the other group by pregnant women with a risk medical history. The personal, family and a detailed medical history will be collected in each group. A study of all the variables which influence the level of the mentioned biomarkers (triglycerides, cholesterol, glucose and prolactin) will be done. The universe consists in 4,300 women, who constitute the historical average deliveries during the semester in the city of Granada (Spain). The sample collection will be made in medical office\u2019s pregnancy control in Granada\u2019s hospitals, in their respective health centers and during the second half of 2015. The sample will be stratified and probabilistic. Peculiarities of pregnant women will be taken into account when calculating the size of the study sample. This sample will be made up of 224 women who comply with the inclusion criteria and that have signed the informed consent. To achieve the project objectives an organization comprising six theoretical and practical phases enabling the scientific development of the project. During the first phase, the technical and administrative preparation of the project is constructed. Thereafter, the work is divided into two action areas which encompass the collection and data modeling. The creation of a biological multi-paradigm computer simulation model of the levels of biomarkers in different months of pregnancy and in the various pathologies of pregnant women can be very effective to know the risks that involve high levels of lipids for the mother and for the baby.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1878/', ['Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Nursing', 'Nutrition', "Women's Health"], [u'Nursing, Universidad de Granada', u'Lenguajes y Sistemas Inform\xe1ticos, Universidad de Granada']]
[u'The essential need for research misconduct allegation audits', ['Lisa Loikith', 'Robert P Bauchwitz'], u'2016-03-17', u"Nearly ninety percent of allegations of biomedical research misconduct in the United States are dismissed by responsible institutions without any faculty assessment or auditable record. Recently, members of the U.S. Congress have complained that the penalties for those against whom findings of research misconduct are made are too light and that too few grant funds associated with research misconduct have been recovered for use by other researchers and taxpayers. Here we describe the laws that empower federal agencies which can oversee investigations of biomedical research misconduct: the Office of Research Integrity (ORI) and Office of the Inspector General (OIG), both located within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Research misconduct pertaining to U.S. physical sciences funded through the National Science Foundation (NSF) is overseen by the NSF's OIG. While OIGs may provide some improvement over ORI in the handling of research misconduct, we have found that a much more serious flaw exists which undermines an ability to conduct performance audits as to the effectiveness by which allegations of research misconduct are handled in the United States. Federal audit standards (GAGAS/Yellow Book), if applied to the handling of research misconduct, would allow a determination as to whether the handling of allegations of biomedical research misconduct actually functions adequately, and if not, how it might be improved. Specifically, we propose that independent, external peer review under GAGAS audit standards should be instituted without delay in assessing the performance of ORI, or any other similarly tasked federal agency, in handling allegations of research misconduct.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1577/', ['Ethical Issues', 'Legal Issues', 'Science Policy'], [u'Amerandus Research']]
[u'Flash visual evoked potentials in diurnal birds of prey', ['Maurizio Dondi', 'Fabio Biaggi', 'Francesco Di Ianni', 'Pier Luigi Dodi', 'Fausto Quintavalla'], u'2016-03-17', u"The objective of this pilot study was to evaluate the feasibility of Flash Visual Evoked Potentials (FVEPs) testing in birds of prey in a clinical setting and to describe the protocol and the baseline data for normal vision in this species. FVEP recordings were obtained from 6 normal adult birds of prey: n. 2 Harris's Hawks (Parabuteo unicinctus), n. 1 Lanner Falcon (Falco biarmicus), n. 2 Gyrfalcons (Falco rusticolus) and n. 1 Saker Falcon (Falco cherrug). Before carrying out VEP tests, all animals underwent neurologic and ophthalmic routine examination. Waveforms were analysed to identify reproducible peaks from random variation of baseline. At least three positive and negative peaks were highlighted in all tracks with elevated repeatability. Measurements consisted of the absolute and relative latencies of these peaks (P1, N1, P2, N2, P3, and N3) and their peak-to-peak amplitudes. Both the peak latency and wave morphology achieved from normal animals were similar to those obtained previously in other animal species. This test can be easily and safely performed in a clinical setting in birds of prey and could be useful for an objective assessment of visual function.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1875/', ['Neuroscience', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology', 'Neurology'], [u'Department of Veterinary Science, University of Parma']]
[u'Transforming the Web into an open-access knowledge-repository with better knowledge-creation and faster publication, by means of software for MetaLinks and for AEC-Forums that enhance post-graduate education', ['Don L Jewett'], u'2016-03-17', u'', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1568/', ['Computer Education', 'Computer Networks and Communications', 'Databases', 'Digital Libraries', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Research Director, Abratech Corporation', u'Professor Emeritus, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco (UCSF)']]
[u'Microbial diversity of extreme habitats in human homes', ['Amy M. Savage', 'Justin Hills', 'Katherine Driscoll', 'Daniel J Fergus', 'Amy M Grunden', 'Robert R Dunn'], u'2016-03-17', u'Background: High throughput sequencing techniques have opened up the world of microbial diversity to scientists, and a flurry of studies in the most remote and extreme habitats on earth have begun to elucidate the key roles of microbes in ecosystems with extreme conditions. These same environmental extremes can also be found closer to humans; in fact, they can be found in our homes. Here, we used high throughput sequencing techniques to assess microbial diversity in the extreme environments inside human homes (e.g. dishwashers, hot water heaters, washing machine bleach reservoirs, etc.). We focused on habitats in the home with extreme temperature, pH and chemical environmental conditions.\nResults: We found that although these habitats supported a lower diversity of microbes than less extreme habitats in the home, there were still diverse microbial assemblages in extreme home environments. Habitats with extreme temperatures alone appeared to be able to support a greater diversity of microbes than habitats with extreme pH or extreme chemical environments alone. Microbial diversity was lowest when habitats had both extreme temperature and one of these other extremes. This interactive effect was strongest when habitats had both extreme temperatures and extreme pH. Under these conditions, taxa with known associations with extreme conditions dominated.\nConclusions: Our findings highlight the importance of examining interactive effects of multiple environmental extremes on microbial communities. Inasmuch as taxa from extreme environments can be both pathogens and industrially useful, our findings also suggest future work to understand both the threats and opportunities posed by the life in these habitats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1874/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey', u'Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases', u'Animal Management Department, The Wilds', u'Genomics and Microbiology, North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences', u'Department of Plant and Microbial Biology, North Carolina State University', u'Department of Applied Ecology and Keck Center for Behavioral Biology, North Carolina State University']]
[u'Carotenoid biotransformation pathways and oxidative stress in a bird: an experimental approach and its implications for color signaling', ['Esther Garcia-de Blas', 'Rafael Mateo', 'Carlos Alonso-Alvarez'], u'2016-03-17', u"Colorful ornaments have been the focus of sexual selection studies since the work of Darwin. Yellow to red coloration is often produced by carotenoid pigments. Different hypotheses have been formulated to explain the evolution of these traits as signals of individual quality. Many of these hypotheses involve the existence of a signal production cost. The carotenoids necessary for signaling can only be obtained from food. In this line, carotenoid-based signals could reveal an individual's capacity to find sufficient dietary pigments. However, the ingested carotenoids are often yellow and became transformed by the organism to produce pigments of more intense color (red ketocarotenoids). Biotransformation often involves oxidation reactions. We tested the hypothesis that biotransformation could be costly because a certain level of oxidative stress is required. Thus, the carotenoid-based signals could reveal the efficiency of the owner in successfully managing this challenge. In a bird with ketocarotenoid-based ornaments (the red-legged partridge; Alectoris rufa), the availability of different carotenoids in the diet and oxidative stress were manipulated. We found that color and pigment levels in the ornaments depended on the relative quantity in the food of those carotenoids used as substrates in biotransformation (i.e. zeaxanthin and lutein). Moreover, we found that birds exposed to certain levels of a free radical generator (diquat) developed redder bills and deposited higher amounts of ketocarotenoids (astaxanthin) in ornaments, thus supporting the hypothesis. However, the effect also depended on the relative abundance of substrate carotenoids in the diet. This last result suggests the involvement of a resource allocation trade-off, which would support, to some extent, a signaling cost linked to carotenoid acquisition.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1873/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Instituto de Investigaci\xf3n en Recursos Cineg\xe9ticos (IREC), Universidad de Castilla La Mancha', u'Ecolog\xeda Evolituva, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales (MNCN), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cient\xedficas (CSIC)']]
[u'Largest global shark biomass found in the northern Gal\xe1pagos Islands of Darwin and Wolf', ['Pelayo Salinas de Leon', 'David Acuna-Marrero', 'Etienne Rastoin', 'Alan M Friedlander', 'Mary K Donovan', 'Enric Sala'], u'2016-03-17', u'Overfishing has dramatically depleted sharks and other large predatory fishes worldwide except for a few remote and/or well-protected areas. The islands of Darwin and Wolf in the far north of the Galapagos Marine Reserve (GMR) are known for their large shark abundance, making them a global scuba diving and conservation hotspot. Here we report quantitative estimates of fish abundance at Darwin and Wolf over two consecutive years using stereo-video surveys, which reveal the largest reef fish biomass ever reported (17.5 t ha-1 on average), consisting largely of sharks. Despite this, the abundance of reef fishes around the GMR, such as groupers, has been severely reduced because of unsustainable fishing practices. Although Darwin and Wolf are within the GMR, they were not fully protected from fishing until March 2016. Given the ecological value and the economic importance of Darwin and Wolf for the dive tourism industry, the current protection should ensure the long-term conservation of this hotspot of unique global value.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1872/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Marine Sciences, Charles Darwin Research Station', u'Pristine Seas, National Geographic Society', u'Fisheries Ecology Research Lab, University of Hawai\u2019i at Manoa']]
[u'Arctium lappa \u2013 Burdock pappus bristles can cause skin irritation and burdock ophthalmia', ['Theodor C H Cole', 'Shan Su', 'Hartmut H Hilger'], u'2016-03-17', u"Contact with and handling of burs (the flowering heads or infructescences) from the greater burdock (Arctium lappa L., Asteraceae) and other members of the same genus, is a potential hazard for humans, horses, and dogs. The minute, sharply-pointed, bristly pappus hairs easily detach from the top of the 'seeds' and are carried by the slightest breeze \u2013 attaching to skin, mucous membranes, and eyes where they can cause severe dermal irritation, possible respiratory manifestations, and ophthalmia.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1871/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Ophthalmology', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University', u'Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy, Rutgers, The State University of  New Jersey', u'Institute of Biology, Plant Morphology and Systematics, Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin']]
[u'Chemoselective activation of amide carbonyls towards nucleophilic reagents', ['Bartomiej  Furman'], u'2016-03-17', u'Amides represent an important class of compounds in chemistry, chemical biology and pharmaceutical industry. Their broad utility in many fields is closely tied to the structure of the amide moiety which endows these compounds with unique features. The low reactivity of amide carbonyls towards nucleophiles is a major obstacle to their further functionalization. Selective activation of amides and lactams enables access to novel reactivity pathways and opens up intriguing perspectives in synthesis. Recently, we have demonstrated that upon treatment with Cp2Zr(H)Cl (Schwartz\u2019s reagent), five- and six-membered lactams, including sugar- and hydroxy acid-derived lactams, can be easily converted into imines under mild conditions. In addition, as was also shown, in situ generated cyclic imines can be directly subjected to further reactions with nucleophilic reagents such as allyltributylstannane, Grignard reagents, enolates or Danishefsky\u2019s diene to afford \u03b1-functionalized pyrrolidines, piperidines and polyhydroxylated pyrrolidine peptidomimetic scaffolds in a one-pot manner. The key advantage of the presented approach is the simplicity and convenience of generation of sugar-derived imines from readily available starting materials: sugar-derived lactams. The use of sugar-derived lactams as cyclic imine precursors is crucial to the efficiency of the described synthetic method. These compounds are more readily prepared, handled, and stored than the alternative precursors of cyclic imines such as nitrones, N-chloroamines or azido aldehydes. In the second part of the lecture a method for preparing 2,3-disubstituted indoles from commercially available isatins will be briefly presented.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1770/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Institute of Organic Chemistry PAS']]
[u'Altered ADAR1 in mice affected by social isolation stress-induced cognitive deficits', ['Wei Chen', 'Dong An', 'Hong Xu', 'Xiaoxin Cheng', 'Shiwei Wang', 'Weizhi Yu', 'Deqin Yu', 'Dan Zhao', 'Yiping Sun', 'Wuguo Deng', 'Yiyuan Tang', 'Shengming Yin'], u'2016-03-17', u'Adenosine deaminase acting on RNA (ADAR) activity increases in response to inflammation. Social isolation stress is related to neuroinflammation; however, it remains unclear whether ADAR1 is altered in response to social isolation stress-induced cognitive deficits. To investigate our hypothesis that ADAR1 displayed patterns of change in response to social isolation stress, we addressed this issue systemically by isolating Kunming mice for 2, 4 and 8 weeks individually since postnatal 21 days to set up isolation mouse model. Furthermore, we arranged re-socialization group to evaluate the alterations of ADAR1 in the cognitive deficits recovery. The results of behavior tests showed that social isolation stress resulted in cognitive dysfunction, which was recovered by re-socialization in re-gregarious rearing group. Furthermore, the immunohistochemistry and western blot results displayed that both the immunoreactivity and protein expression of ADAR1 in the hippocampus and frontal cortex increased obviously as compared to the same age mice without isolation. The above abnormal alterations of ADAR1 were recovered by re-socialization in re-gregarious rearing group. Our study supports the hypothesis that ADAR1 is altered in mice affected by social isolation stress-induced cognitive deficits.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1870/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biochemistry', 'Neuroscience'], [u'College of Basic Medical Sciences, Dalian Medical University', u'Department of Physiology Laboratory, Dalian Medical University', u'Menzies Research Institute, University of Tasmania', u'Institute of Cancer Stem Cell, Dalian Medical University', u'Texas Tech University, Texas Tech Neuroimaging Institute']]
[u'Possibility of using fullerene C240 as the carrier of steroid hormones', ['Monika K Grudzien', 'Izabela Wisniewska', 'Marcin Suskiewicz', 'Tomasz Pienko', 'Aleksander P. Mazurek'], u'2016-03-17', u'Fullerene molecules are created entirely of carbon and form orbicular or ellipsoidal cage shape similar to a hollow tube. The derivatives of fullerenes are classified into the following categories according to their functionalization: endohedral fullerenes with active molecules residing inside the carbon cage, exohedral with wide variety of both inorganic and organic groups existing outside and connected to the fullerenes\u2019 exterior and heterofullerenes when one or more carbon atoms that form the fullerene carbon cage are replaced by a non-carbon atom, i.e. a heteroatom. Fullerene C240belongs to the family of giant fullerenes and is characterized by a greater stability than that of the well-known fullerene C60. This has been proved by observing an increased formation heat that accompanied the decreasing of the carbon cage size.In order to determine the fullerene C240 ability to transport the steroid hormones: estradiol, progesterone, androsterone and their basic structures: estrone, androstane and pregnane, the following parameters, inter alia, have been calculated: energies of stabilization, interaction and deformation of each endohedral complex. The calculations for all chosen structures were carried out with the use of the molecular modeling technique. Based on all available studies, it can be stated that fullerene C240 could be a solution for problems faced by medicine and pharmacy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1869/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Drug Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy with the Laboratory Medicine Division, Medical University of Warsaw', u'Department of Basic and Applied Pharmacy, National Medicines Institute']]
[u'Insights into the morphology of symbiotic shrimp eyes (Crustacea, Decapoda, Pontoniinae); the effects of habitat demands', ['Nicola C Dobson', 'Magnus L Johnson', 'Sammy De Grave'], u'2016-03-16', u'Morphometric differences in the optical morphology of symbiotic palaemonid shrimps can be observed among species symbiotic with different host organisms. Discriminant functional analysis revealed three distinct groups within the species examined. Of these, bivalve symbionts appear to have an eye design that is solely unique to this host-symbiont grouping, a design that spans across multiple genera of phylogenetically unrelated animals. Although some taxonomic effects may be evident, this does not explain the difference and similarities in eye morphology that are seen within these shrimps. Therefore evolutionary pressures from their host environments are having an impact on the optical morphology of eyes however, as indicated by host-hopping events there ecological adaptations occur post host invasion.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1868/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Centre for Environmental and Marine Sciences, University of Hull', u'Oxford University Museum of Natural History, University of Oxford']]
[u'Acceptance of the German e-mental health portal www.psychenet.de: an online survey', ['Lisa Tlach', 'Juliane Thiel', 'Martin Harter', 'Sarah Liebherz', 'Jorg Dirmaier'], u'2016-03-16', u'Background. Taking into account the high prevalence of mental disorders and the multiple barriers to the use of mental health services, new forms of fostering patient information, involvement, and self-management are needed to complement existing mental health services. The study aimed at investigating acceptance regarding design and content of the e-mental health portal www.psychenet.de. Methods. An online cross-sectional survey was conducted between May 2013 and May 2015 using a self-administered questionnaire including items on perceived ease of use, perceived usefulness, attitude towards using, and perceived trust. Effects of different participants\u2019 characteristics on the portals\u2019 acceptance were analyzed. Results. The majority of the N=252 respondents suffered from mental disorders (n=139) or were relatives from persons with mental disorders (n=65). The portal was assessed as \u201cgood\u201d or \u201cvery good\u201d by 71% of the respondents. High levels of agreement (89-96%) were shown for statements on the perceived ease of use, the behavioral intention to use the portal, and the trustworthiness of the portal. Lower levels of agreement were shown for some statements on the perceived usefulness of the portals\u2019 content. There were no effects of different participants\u2019 characteristics on the perceived ease of use, the perceived usefulness, the attitude towards using the website and the perceived trust. Discussion. This survey provides preliminary evidence that the e-mental health portal www.psychenet.de appears to be a usable, useful and trustworthy information resource for a broad target group. The behavioral usefulness of the portals\u2019 content might be improved by integrating more activating patient decision aids.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1867/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Medical Psychology, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf']]
[u'Detection of a Yersinia pestis gene homologue in rodent samples', ['Timothy A Giles', 'Alex D Greenwood', 'Kyriakos Tsangaras', 'Paul A Barrow', 'Duncan Hannant', 'Abu-Bakr Abu-Median', 'Lisa Yon'], u'2016-03-16', u'A homologue to a widely used genetic marker, pla, for Yersinia pestis has been identified in tissue samples of two species of rat (Rattus rattus and Rattus norvegicus) and of mice (Mus musculus and Apodemus sylvaticus) using a microarray based platform to screen for zoonotic pathogens of interest. Samples were from urban locations in the UK (Liverpool) and Canada (Vancouver). The results indicate the presence of an unknown bacterium that shares a homologue with Yersinia pestis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1866/', ['Genetics', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham', u'Department of Wildlife Diseases, Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research', u'Department of Translational Genetics, Cyprus Institute of Neurology and Genetics', u'School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham']]
[u'Possibility of closing benzene structure inside hetero-derivatives of fullerene C60 as indicator of using them as the carriers of drugs containing benzene ring', ['Monika K. Grudzien', 'Krzysztof Stepien', 'Tomasz Pienko', 'Aleksander P. Mazurek'], u'2016-03-16', u"Fullerene molecules are created entirely of carbon and have a highly unusual attributes. The one of the fullerene derivatives are heterofullerenes when one or more carbon atoms that form the fullerene carbon cage are replaced by a non-carbon atom, i.e., a heteroatom. The aim of the study was to determine the effect of the aromatic compound (benzene) on the boron, silicon and sulfur fullerene C60 hetero derivatives stability. The chosen heteroatoms were occupied only one ring of one type. The following complexes have been studied: C6H6@C54B6, C6H6@C55B5, C6H6@C54Si6, C6H6@C55Si5, C6H6@C54S6 and C6H6@C55S5. The energies of stabilization (\u0394Estab.), deformation (\u0394Edef) and interaction (\u0394Eint.) as well as absolute energy (\u0394E) of each examined heterofullerens C60 and their complexes with benzene were calculated with the use of the molecular modeling technique. The least amount of fullerene's cage distortion was characterized boron derivatives of fullerene C60 and their endohedral complexes. The calculation suggests that those systems could exist despite positive energies values and it lets assume the possibility of using them as drug carriers.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1865/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Drug Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy with the Laboratory Medicine Division, Medical University of Warsaw', u'Department of Basic and Applied Pharmacy, National Medicines Institute']]
[u'Results from an ethnographically-informed study in the context of test-driven development', ['Simone Romano', 'Davide Davide Fucci', 'Giuseppe Scanniello', 'Burak Turhan', 'Natalia Juristo'], u'2016-03-16', u'Background: Test-driven development (TDD) is an iterative software development technique where unit-tests are defined before production code. Previous studies fail to analyze the values, beliefs, and assumptions that inform and shape TDD. Aim: We designed and conducted a qualitative study to understand the values, beliefs, and assumptions of TDD. In particular, we sought to understand how novice and professional software developers, arranged in pairs (a driver and a pointer), perceive and apply TDD. Method: 14 novice software developers, i.e., graduate students in Computer Science at the University of Basilicata, and six professional software developers with work one to 10 years work experience participated in our ethnographically-informed study. We asked the participants to implement a new feature for an existing software written in Java. We immersed ourselves in the context of the study, and collected data by means of contemporaneous field notes, audio recordings, and other artifacts. Results: A number of insights emerge from our analysis of the collected data, the main ones being: (i) refactoring (one of the phases of TDD) is not performed as often as the process requires and it is considered less important than other phases, (ii) the most important phase is implementation, (iii) unit tests for unimplemented functionalities or behaviors are almost never up-to-date, (iv) participants first build a sort of mental model of the source code to be implemented and only then write test cases on the basis of this model; and (v) apart from minor differences, professional developers and students applied TDD in a similar fashion. Conclusions: Developers write quick-and-dirty production code to pass the tests and ignore refactoring.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1864/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Computer Science and Economics, Universit\xe0 degli Studi della Basilicata', u'Information Technology and Electrical Engineering, University of Oulu']]
[u'Microbial community structure and nutrient dynamics in forest soils colonized by bracken fern (Pteridium aquilinum)', ['Manuel Aira', 'Andrea Tato', 'Jorge Dominguez'], u'2016-03-16', u'Bracken fern (Pteridium aquilinum) is one of the most successful plant colonizers of soils in temperate regions; however, its effects on microbial community structure and activity and nutrient dynamics remain poorly understood. We studied whether colonization of forest soil by bracken fern modifies the structure and function of the soil microbial communities and considered the implications for ecosystem functioning. For this purpose, we analyzed microbial community structure (PLFAs) and activity (basal respiration, metabolic quotient), litter decomposition and nutrient dynamics (C, N and P) in monospecific oak (Quercus robur L.), eucalyptus (Eucalyptus globulus Labill.) and maritime pine forests (Pinus pinaster Aiton) colonized by bracken fern. Colonization of forest soil by bracken fern led to a reduction in differences in microbial community structure, as revealed by principal component and cluster analysis, although samples from oak forests were grouped separately. According to this, bracken litter decomposed to a greater extent than native tree litter in pine forest soils, whereas the opposite was found in oak forest soils. Such differences were not observed in eucalyptus forest soils. Colonization by bracken fern affected C mineralization, with no difference between the different types of forest; however, both N and P mineralization were higher in oak than in the other types of forest. In conclusion, colonization by bracken fern homogenizes soil microbial community structure. Differences in the decomposability of bracken litter in the different forest systems suggest a high degree of metabolic specialization of soil microorganisms. Thus, the soil microorganisms associated with bracken are continuously driven to decompose the bracken litter. In the long-term this will alter nutrient cycling, slowing decomposition and enhancing sequestering of nutrients by bracken ferns.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1863/', ['Ecosystem Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'Ecolox\xeda e Biolox\xeda Animal, Universidade de Vigo']]
[u'On the occurrence of fossil conifers with affinities to Geinitzia in the late Cretaceous (Campanian) Mesaverde Group, Williams Fork Formation of northeastern Utah, U.S.A.', ['Benjamin J Burger', 'Christopher J Ward'], u'2016-03-16', u'In this paper we describe fossil conifer branches discovered in the Mesaverde Group, Williams Fork Formation in northeastern Utah, along Snake John Reef. Fossil conifers from the Campanian of northeastern Utah have not been previously studied, despite their common occurrence in the formation. The recovered fossils closely resemble Geinitzia known from the late Cretaceous of Europe, with several previous reported occurrences in North America, including New Jersey and Southern Utah. The fossils share morphological characteristics with Geinitzia, exhibiting short spirally arranged thin needles, with appressed scale-like leaves along the shoots. They differ from Araucarites in that the appressed needles are more scale like and smaller, and differ from the members of the modern Araucariaceae in lacking broad bases to the needles, although the fossils resemble the modern species Araucaria heterophylla (Norfolk Island Pine) native to the South Pacific. The observed branching pattern in the fossil reflects similarities found in the Cupressaceae Family, and Geinitzia may be regarded as an early member of this group, or having an affinity to fossil Araucariaceae conifers, which despite having a modern southern hemisphere geographic distribution today were widespread during the late Mesozoic, extending across North America and Europe.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1862/', ['Paleontology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Geology, Utah State University']]
[u'CIA; assessment of Atlantic herring spawning beds as an example of effective transboundary co-operation', ['Philip L Latto', 'Ian S Reach', 'Iain Warner', 'Mark Russell'], u'2016-03-16', u'In the UK, Cumulative Impact Assessment (CIA) has become a staple component of the licensing and regulatory assessment process. CIA considers the prospective impacts originating from new developments alongside impacts arising from existing activities. This assessment provides a representation of the disturbance experienced within UK waters, yet international transboundary effects are often overlooked or data is not freely available. An assessment of Atlantic herring Clupea harengus spawning beds was conducted. Seabed sediment maps, fisheries information and larval survey data were used to identify likely spawning sites. Interactions with seabed user activities and cumulative effects were then assessed for UK waters only. This methodology and the subsequent assessment have informed revised ICES management advice on activities interacting with spawning beds. The benefit of assessing single species interactions with developments is recognised, and the need for expanding the assessment to transcend territorial boundaries accepted. To extend this assessment to cover the geographic range of a mobile species such as Atlantic herring requires more data than considered previously. A proposed wider mapping project seeks to include data from fisheries, renewable energy companies, dredging companies, and statistics and mapping experts. This co-ordination between sea users and policy makers will allow a more robust assessment of the interaction of Atlantic herring with marine activities. Extending beyond this initial single species assessment it is suggested that there is a requirement for the quantifiable assessment of other individual transboundary receptors such as habitats, and mobile species such as birds and mammals. This can only be achieved through effective co-operation and free data exchange between developers and policy makers. Without clear co-ordination and the inclusion of all parameters in a CIA the true extent of impacts on the receptor cannot be determined.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1861/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'MarineSpace Limited', u'MarineSpace Limited', u'British Marine Aggregate Producers Association']]
[u'A simple, sufficient, and consistent method to score the status of threats and demography of imperiled species', ['Jacob W Malcom', 'Whitney M Webber', 'Ya-Wei Li'], u'2016-03-15', u'Managers of large wildlife conservation programs need information on the conservation status of each of many species to strategically allocate limited resources. Oversimplified status data, however, runs the risk of missing information essential to strategic allocation. Conservation status consists of two components, the status of threats a species faces and the species\u2019 demographic status. Neither component alone is sufficient to characterize conservation status. Here we present a simple key for scoring threat and demographic changes for species using detailed information provided in free-form textual descriptions of conservation status. Importantly, this key applies equally to any taxon and can be used where quantitative trend data for threats or demography is sparse. We scored the threat and demographic status of 37 species recently recommended for reclassification under the Endangered Species Act by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and 15 control (not recommended for reclassification) species. We then compared the threat and demographic status scores to two metrics that FWS uses for their decision-making and reports to Congress: the reclassification recommendation and the recovery priority numbers (RPNs). While the metrics reported by FWS are often consistent with our scores for 52 species analyzed, our analyses highlight two problems with the oversimplified metrics. First, we show that both metrics can mask underlying demographic declines or threat increases; for example, ~40% of species not recommended for reclassification had changes in threats or demography. Second, we show that neither metric is consistent with either threats or demography alone, but conflates the two. We propose that large conservation programs, such as FWS\u2019s Endangered Species program, adopt our simple scoring system for threats and demography. By doing so, program administrators will have better information to monitor program effectiveness and guide their decisions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1860/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Endangered Species Conservation, Defenders of WIldlife', u'Department of Earth & Environmental Science, University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Rushing Roulette \u2013 how do learners perform routine tasks under time pressure?', ['David Topps', 'Ana Popovic', 'Teejay Horne', 'Jean M Rawling', 'Maureen Topps'], u'2016-03-15', u'Introduction: Remediating, or preferably, predicting which residents will have difficulty before they need remediating, is a challenging task. Most of us perform better when pumped for an exam. But how do we respond when under routine pressures? Do weaker learners adapt differently, despite coaching? Methods: Using an adaptation of virtual patient software, we explored how learners cope with handling repetitive yet time-sensitive routine tasks. We emulated the performance of routine tasks within a virtual electronic medical record (EMR) environment, tracking individual learner activity and decision pathways, time to act (with and without enforced pressure from programmed time-outs) and their adaptation trajectories over time with coaching. Learners were assessed using Situational Judgement and modified Script Concordance Testing, with reproducible and granular time constraints introduced into the clinical reasoning process. Results: Our case designs introduce a number of competing elements: time pressures, competing priorities and instructions, resource availability and unpredictable outcomes. Learner behaviour is assessed using a variety of metrics including time-stamped decision points, decision pathways and internal counter scores. Clinical reasoning pathways, as compared to a reference peer panel, are in turn compared with and without the time pressures. Conclusions: Predictive analytics have made great promises in diagnosing problems for learners in difficulty but are complex and expensive to deploy widely. Our simpler, rapidly reproducible approach may provide a more practical solution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1859/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Family Medicine, University of Calgary', u'Office of Postgraduate Medical Education, University of Calgary']]
[u'Elaboration of near infrared spectroscopy model for determination of water content in freeze-dried immunological veterinary medicinal products', ['Krzysztof Bulenger', 'Dorota Marta Krasucka', 'Bogumi Biernacki', 'Jakub Szumio', 'Beata Cuvelier'], u'2016-03-15', u'Residual water is a critical parameter in assessing the quality of immunological veterinary medicinal products (IVMPs). In majority of the laboratories the Karl Fischer titration (KFT) is used for the determination of water content in IVMPs. However, the transfer of IVMP into titration cell without affecting the baseline drift and repeatability seems to be the main problem when using this method. In turn, Near Infrared Spectroscopy (NIRS) allows measurement of closed vials, therefore eliminating the impact of atmospheric conditions on the sample. The aim of the study was to create a calibration model based on the reference method (Karl Fischer titration) and its optimization. Five different IVMPs designated for two animal species (dogs and rabbits) were used. The model was constructed on the basis of 49 samples tested, each in triplicate (n=147). The spectra were divided in two sets: calibration and validation. Proper selection of samples and their processing allowed to obtain a model of high quality (Q-value>0.6).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1858/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Veterinary Pharmacy, National Veterinary Research Institiute']]
[u'Zika virus impairs growth in human neurospheres and brain organoids', ['Patricia P Garcez', 'Erick C Loiola', 'Rodrigo F Madeiro da Costa', 'Luiza Higa', 'Pablo Trindade', 'Rodrigo Delvecchio', 'Juliana M Nascimento', 'Rodrigo M Brindeiro', 'Almicar Tanuri', 'Stevens K Rehen'], u'2016-03-13', u'Since the emergence of Zika virus (ZIKV), reports of microcephaly have increased dramatically in Brazil; however, causality between the widespread epidemic and malformations in fetal brains has not been confirmed. Here, we examine the effects of ZIKV infection in human neural stem cells growing as neurospheres and cerebral organoids. Using immunocytochemistry and electron microscopy, we show that ZIKV targets human brain cells, reducing their viability and growth as neurospheres and cerebral organoids. These results suggest that ZIKV abrogates neurogenesis during human brain development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1817/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro', u"D'Or Institute for Research and Education (IDOR)", u'Institute of Biology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro', u'Department of Biochemistry and Tissue Biology / Institute of Biology, State University of Campinas (UNICAMP)']]
[u'COMODI: An ontology to characterise differences in versions of computational models in biology', ['Martin Scharm', 'Dagmar Waltemath', 'Pedro Mendes', 'Olaf Wolkenhauer'], u'2016-03-13', u'Motivation: Open model repositories provide ready-to-reuse computational models of biological systems. Models within those repositories evolve over time, leading to many alternative and subsequent versions. Taken together, the underlying changes reflect a model\u2019s provenance and thus can give valuable insights into the studied biology. Currently, however, changes cannot be semantically interpreted. To improve this situation, we developed an ontology of terms describing changes in computational biology models. The ontology can be used by scientists and within software to characterise model updates at the level of single changes. When studying or reusing a model, these annotations help with determining the relevance of a change in a given context.\nMethods: We manually studied changes in selected models from BioModels and the Physiome Model Repository. Using the BiVeS tool for difference detection, we then performed an automatic analysis of changes in all models published in\nthese repositories. The resulting set of concepts led us to define candidate terms for the ontology. In a final step, we aggregated and classified these terms and built the first version of the ontology.\nResults: We present COMODI, an ontology needed because COmputational MOdels DIffer. It empowers users and software to describe changes in a model on the semantic level. COMODI also enables software to implement user-specific filter options for the display of model changes. Finally, COMODI is the next step towards predicting how a change in a model influences the simulation study.\nConclusion: COMODI, coupled with our algorithm for difference detection, ensures the transparency of a model\u2019s evolution and it enhances the traceability of updates and error corrections.\nAvailability: COMODI is encoded in OWL. It is openly available at http://comodi.sems.uni-rostock.de/.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1857/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Dept. of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock', u'School of Computer Science and Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, University of Manchester', u'Center for Quantitative Medicine, University of Connecticut', u'Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study (STIAS), Wallenberg Research Centre at Stellenbosch University']]
[u'Preventing Zika virus infection during pregnancy by timing conception seasonally', ['Micaela E Martinez-Bakker'], u'2016-03-13', u'It has come to light that ZIKV infection during pregnancy can result in fetal death, damage to the central nervous system, and growth restrictions. In 2016 there are expected to be >8,600,000 births in countries with ongoing ZIKV transmission. In response to the ZIKV threat, the WHO is strategically targeting prevention of infection in pregnant women and funding contraception use in epidemic regions. I propose that the damaging effects of ZIKV can be curtailed by timing pregnancy seasonally to minimize maternal exposure to ZIKV. The ZIKV mosquito vector has seasonal changes in its abundance and flavivirus transmission competence. By seasonally planning pregnancy, this aspect of vector ecology can be leveraged to align sensitive periods of gestation with the low-transmission season.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1818/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Infectious Diseases', "Women's Health"], [u'Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University']]
[u'Emergent properties of a non-physiological computational model of tumour growth', ['Pan Pantziarka'], u'2016-03-13', u'While there have been enormous advances in our understanding of the genetic drivers and molecular pathways involved in cancer in recent decades, there also remain key areas of dispute with respect to fundamental theories of cancer. The accumulation of vast new datasets from genomics and other fields, in addition to detailed descriptions of molecular pathways, cloud the issues and lead to ever greater complexity. One strategy in dealing with such complexity is to develop thought experiments which selectively focus on different levels of abstraction in order to build models to replicate salient features of the system and therefore to build hypotheses which reflect on the real system. NEATG is a simple non-physiological tumour growth model which displays emergent behaviours that correspond to a number of clinically relevant phenomena including tumour growth, intra-tumour heterogeneity, growth arrest and accelerated repopulation following cytotoxic insult. Analysis of model data suggests that the processes of cell competition and apoptosis are key drivers of these emergent behaviours. Questions are raised as to the role of cell competition and cell death in physical cancer growth and the relevance these have to cancer research in general is discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1558/', ['Computational Biology', 'Oncology', 'Computational Science'], [u'The George Pantziarka TP53 Trust', u'Anticancer Fund']]
[u'Testing the potential of a ribosomal 16S marker for DNA metabarcoding of insects', ['Vasco Elbrecht', 'Pierre Taberlet', 'Tony Dejean', 'Alice Valentini', 'Philippe Usseglio-polatera', 'Jean-nicolas Beisel', 'Eric Coissac', 'Frederic Boyer', 'Florian Leese'], u'2016-03-13', u'Cytochrome c oxidase I (COI) is a powerful marker for DNA barcoding of animals, with good taxonomic resolution and a large reference database. However, when used for DNA metabarcoding, estimation of taxa abundances and species detection are limited due to primer bias caused by highly variable primer binding sites across the COI gene. Therefore, we explored the ability of the 16S ribosomal DNA gene as an alternative metabarcoding marker for species level assessments. Ten bulk samples, each containing equal amounts of tissue from 52 freshwater invertebrate taxa, were sequenced with the Illumina NextSeq 500 system. In comparison to COI, the 16S marker amplified more insect species and amplified more equally, probably due to decreased primer bias. Rough estimation of biomass might thus be less biased with 16S than with COI. According to these results, the marker choice depends on the scientific question. If the goal is to obtain a taxonomic identification at the species level, then COI is more appropriate due to established reference databases and known taxonomic resolution of this marker, knowing that a greater proportion of species will be missed using COI Folmer primers. If the goal is to obtain a more comprehensive survey in a context where it is possible to build a local reference database, the 16S marker could be more appropriate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1855/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Dept. Animal Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity, Ruhr University Bochum', u'Aquatic Ecosystem Research, University of Duisburg-Essen', u"Laboratoire d'Ecologie Alpine (LECA), CNRS", u"Laboratoire d'Ecologie Alpine (LECA), Univ. Grenoble Alpes", u'SPYGEN, Savoie Technolac', u'Lab Interdisciplinaire des Environnements Continentaux (LIEC), Universit\xe9 de Lorraine', u'Ecole Natl Genie Eau & Environm Strasbourg', u'UMR CNRS 7362, Univ Strasbourg', u'Centre for Water and Environmental Research (ZWU) Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Nutrient uplift in a cyclonic eddy increases diversity, primary productivity and iron demand of microbial communities relative to a western boundary current', ['Martina A Doblin', 'Katherina Petrou', 'Sutinee Sinutok', 'Justin R Seymour', 'Lauren F Messer', 'Mark V Brown', 'Louiza Norman', 'Jason D Everett', 'Allison S McInnes', 'Peter J Ralph', 'Peter A Thompson', 'Christel S Hassler'], u'2016-03-12', u'The intensification of western boundary currents in the global ocean will potentially influence meso-scale eddy generation, and redistribute microbes and their associated ecological and biogeochemical functions. To understand eddy-induced changes in microbial community composition as well as how they control growth, we targeted the East Australian Current (EAC) region to sample microbes in a cyclonic (cold-core) eddy (CCE) and the adjacent EAC. Phototrophic and diazotrophic microbes were more diverse (2 to 10 times greater Shannon index) in the CCE relative to the EAC, and the cell size distribution in the CCE was dominated (67%) by larger micro-plankton (\u2265 20 \xb5m), as opposed to pico- and nano-sized cells in the EAC. Nutrient addition experiments determined that nitrogen was the principal nutrient limiting growth in the EAC, while iron was a secondary limiting nutrient in the CCE. Among the diazotrophic community, heterotrophic NifH gene sequences dominated in the EAC and were attributable to members of the gamma-, beta-, and delta-proteobacteria, while the CCE contained both phototrophic and heterotrophic diazotrophs, including Trichodesmium, UCYN-A and gamma-proteobacteria. Daily sampling of incubation bottles following nutrient amendment captured a cascade of effects at the cellular, population and community level, indicating taxon-specific differences in the speed of response of microbes to nutrient supply. Nitrogen addition to the CCE community increased picoeukaryote chlorophyll a quotas within 24 h, suggesting that nutrient uplift by eddies causes a \u2018greening\u2019 effect as well as an increase in phytoplankton biomass. After three days in both the EAC and CCE, diatoms increased in abundance with macronutrient (N, P, Si) and iron amendment , whereas haptophytes and phototrophic dinoflagellates declined. Our results indicate that cyclonic eddies increase delivery of nitrogen to the upper ocean to potentially mitigate the negative consequences of increased stratification due to ocean warming, but also increase the biological demand for iron that is necessary to sustain the growth of large-celled phototrophs and potentially support the diversity of diazotrophs over longer time-scales.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1854/', ['Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Plant Functional Biology and Climate Change Cluster, University of Technology Sydney', u'School of Life Sciences, University of Technology Sydney', u'Faculty of Environmental Management, Prince of Songkla University', u'School of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, University of New South Wales', u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of Cambridge', u'School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales', u'Oceans and Atmosphere Flagship, Commonwealth Scientific Industrial Research Organisation', u'Institute F.-A. Forel, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Geneva']]
[u'To transmit genes without becoming mother: An evolutionary conflict behind denial of pregnancy', ['Patrick Sandoz'], u'2016-03-12', u"Aim: The etiology of pregnancy denial remains poorly understood. Neither necessary nor sufficient conditions can be synthesized from the risk factors identified from psychological analyses. In accordance with clinical observations, we aim to explain denial of pregnancy from an evolutionary conflict perspective.\nMethods: Authors investigate evolutionary biology aspects and emphasize on the transition from solitary animal species to social species. The possibility of conflicts between primitive species-perpetuation forces and subjective social-identity forces are explored.\nResults: As members of a social species, human beings have a dual, contradictory character of independent organisms but interdependent people. This results in evolutionary inherited conflicts that, with respect to women's reproduction, distinguish between primitive and social-identity issues: i) to transmit genes by giving birth and ii) to become mother. Authors explain denial of pregnancy as a standby-in-tension response to a conflicting attempt to transmit genes without becoming mother. It may thus be considered as temporarily adaptive response by postponing conflict resolution. This model, based on subjective internal appraisals, is compatible with a huge diversity of causative events as expected from the specificity of each woman's life course.\nConclusions: The proposed etiology is consistent with clinical observations and brings prior models into agreement. From a clinical practice perspective, the ability to explain denial of pregnancy rationally may favor understanding and acceptation by concerned women. Health professionals' information may also be facilitated and psychotherapeutic follow up may gain in efficiency with reduced recidivism.\nMore generally, this evolutionary conflict approach provides a supplementary perspective to explore psychosomatic dysfunctions.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1853/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', "Women's Health", 'Legal Issues'], [u'Institut FEMTO-ST, Universit\xe9 de Bourgogne Franche-Comt\xe9, UMR CNRS 6174']]
[u'Revulsion in chimpanzees: health maintenance through avoidance of biological contaminants', ['Cecile Sarabian', 'Andrew J. J. MacIntosh'], u'2016-03-11', u'Many major human infectious diseases are transmitted via bodily products such as feces, blood, semen, and saliva. Such contaminants are also known disgust elicitors among humans. From an evolutionary perspective, revulsion in humans is hypothesized to have evolved to protect us from the risk of contracting disease; sensu the Parasite Avoidance Theory of Disgust. To investigate whether chimpanzees are sensitive to these potential sources of infection, we conducted feeding-related experiments to elicit avoidance behaviors in captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes troglodytes, N=20-42; sex ratio=1; 27\xb19 years-old) at the Centre International de Recherches M\xe9dicales de Franceville, Gabon. In the first set of experiments, we tested for feces-avoidance behaviors by presenting target individuals with food rewards in conjunction with visual, olfactory and tactile cues of chimpanzee feces. In a second experiment, the same individuals were presented with olfactory stimuli of blood, semen, and rotten meat. In all experiments, chimpanzees expressed some degree of behavioral avoidance, manifest as refusals to feed, increased latencies to feeding, or maintenance of greater distances from contaminants relative to control substrates. We are now in the process of testing whether behavioral tendencies observed toward these contaminants coincide with individual health markers, including current levels as well as historical records of infection with bacterial, protozoan and helminth parasites. We predict that individuals with greater tendencies toward avoidance of such contaminants, possibly representative of revulsion, to be characterized by better general health than less sensitive individuals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1851/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Parasitology'], [u'Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University', u'Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University']]
[u'Commercial fishing gear modifications to reduce interactions between Atlantic sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus oxyrinchus) and the southern flounder (Paralichthys lethostigma) fishery in North Carolina (USA)', ['Juan C Levesque', 'Christian Hager', 'Eric Diaddorio', 'R. Jason Dickey'], u'2016-03-11', u'Bycatch of protected species in commercial fishing operations is a primary concern to fishery managers because it threatens the conservation, protection, and recovery of fragile species, such as the Atlantic sturgeon (Acipenser oxyrinchus oxyrinchus). One potential solution to reduce the risk associated with commercial fishing operations is to design commercial fishing gear that is more selective in terms of interactions between Atlantic sturgeon and commercial fisheries. Given the need to reduce commercial fishery interactions, the overarching goal was to reduce Atlantic sturgeon fishery interactions and maintain southern flounder (Paralichthys lethostigma) catch in North Carolina. The specific objectives of this study were to design and evaluate the effectiveness of a modified gillnet. Overall, the results proved that lowering the profile and amount of webbing had a beneficial impact at reducing Atlantic sturgeon encounters and bycatch. The modified gillnet reduced bycatch and Atlantic sturgeon encounters by 49.4% and 60.9%, respectively. We also found the modified gear entangled 51.6% less southern flounder, which corresponded to a 32% reduction in total weight; the experimental sections entangled slightly larger individuals than the control sections. Our findings showed the number of Atlantic sturgeon encounters was positively associated with mean water depth, with more Atlantic sturgeon encountered in deeper than shallower waters; 75% were encountered at depths between 4.6 and 6.1 m. In addition, we found that 41% of the Atlantic sturgeon encountered were in warmer (26\u201230\xb0C) than colder water.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1852/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Environmental Resources Management, Impact Assessment and Planning', u'Chesapeake Scientific, LLC', u'Diaddorio Fisheries', u'Natural Resources & Health Sciences Division, Cardno']]
[u'Physicochemical characteristics of abiraterone acetate used for the treatment of prostate cancer', ['Marta  Laszcz', 'Kinga Trzcinska', 'Elzbieta U. Stolarczyk'], u'2016-03-11', u'Prostate cancer is the most common cancer among men and often has no early symptoms. The major treatment options that include surgical or medical castration cause ablation of the production of testosterone, dihydrotestosterone and related androgens by the testes. These procedures do not affect adrenal, prostate and other tissues androgen production, therefore they are combined with androgen receptor antagonists to block their action. Recent studies have established that in castration-resistant prostate cancer many androgen-regulated genes become re-expressed and tissue androgen levels increase despite low serum levels. Abiraterone acetate inhibits the key enzyme cytochrome P450 17\u03b1-hydroxy/17,20-lyase (CYP17) which catalyzes the biosynthesis of androgens and provides the effective treatment of prostate cancer patients. The aim of this work was abiraterone acetate polymorph diagnostics and physcicochemical characteristics of polymorphs. Polymorphism is the ability of a compound in the solid state to exist in different crystalline forms. Molecules, having the same chemical composition, exhibit different spatial arrangements and/or exist in different conformations. Substances that exist in a non-crystalline solid state are said to be amorphous. The term pseudopolymorphism is used to describe solvates (including hydrates). Different polymorphs of a solid compound exhibit distinct physical properties such as, e.g.: hygroscopicity, solubility, dissolution rate, melting point and stability. All of which play a very important role in the pharmaceutical industry. The undesirable polymorphic form with lower solubility and consequently with a lower absorption rate decreases the concentration of active substance in the blood. The Biopharmaceutics Classification System classifies drugs taking into account their solubility. Because a change in a polymorphic form may influence on a drug product affectivity and its toxic properties the regulations required by the ICH Q6A guideline according to the decision tree no 4 demand the control of solid state behavior. Therefore, the polymorphic behavior of abiraterone acetate has to be carefully investigated and all found polymorphs have to be fully characterized. Abiraterone acetate was characterized by following methods: X-ray powder diffraction, infrared and Raman spectroscopy, differential scanning calorimetry. Polymorph screening was performed and single crystals were obtained by a vapour diffusion crystallisation. The structure of abiraterone acetate was solved by the single crystal X-ray diffraction. Additionally the structure was confirmed by the direct sample injection method (DI).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1850/', ['Oncology', 'Public Health'], [u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'Influence of inter-individual distance on grooming interaction in captive chimpanzees and bonobos', ['Morgane Allanic', 'Satoshi Hirata', 'Misato Hayashi', 'Tetsuro Matsuzawa'], u'2016-03-11', u'The spatial organization of a set of individuals may reflect the underlying relationships between them. This study investigated whether inter-individual distance, or the proximity between a pair of individuals, predicts the patterns of grooming interactions. The subjects were twelve chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes; M = 2, F = 10; age: mean = 34.8, range = 25-45) and six bonobos (Pan paniscus; M = 2, F = 4; age: mean = 27.3, range = 13-44) studied since September 2015 and living at Kumamoto Sanctuary (Japan). Proximity, time in contact, and time at less than one meter of all group members were recorded using focal animal sampling. The full temporal organization of grooming patterns was analyzed after ad libitum video records of the interactions. A pair of individuals that spends more time in close proximity was predicted to (i) show a shorter latency to approach before the onset of grooming, (ii) groom sensitive body parts (e.g. face and genitals) more often, and (iii) take turns in grooming more frequently than two individuals that stay far from each other. The results may suggest species-specific or relationship-dependent social tolerance, reflected in both inter-individual distance and patterns of grooming.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1849/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University', u'Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University', u'Institute for Advanced Study, Kyoto University']]
[u'In silico homology modelling and identification of Tousled-like kinase 1 inhibitors for glioblastoma therapy via high throughput virtual screening protein-ligand docking', ['Kamariah Ibrahim', 'Abubakar Danjuma', 'Chyan Leong Ng', 'Nor Azian Abdul Murad', 'Roslan Harun', 'Wan Zurinah Wan Ngah', 'Rahman Jamal'], u'2016-03-10', u'Background: Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a grade IV brain tumor that arises from star-shaped glial cells supporting neural cells called astrocytes. The survival of GBM patients remains poor despite many specific molecular targets that have been developed and used for therapy. Tousled-like kinase 1 (TLK1), a serine-threonine kinase, was identified to be overexpressed in cancers such as GBM. TLK1 plays an important role in controlling chromosomal aggregation, cell survival and proliferation. In vitro studies suggested that TLK1 is a potential target for some cancers; hence, the identification of suitable molecular inhibitors for TLK1 is warranted as a new therapeutic agents in GBM. To date, there is no structure available for TLK1. In this study, we aimed to create a homology model of TLK1 and to identify suitable molecular inhibitors or compounds that are likely to bind and inhibit TLK1 activity via in silico high-throughput virtual screening (HTVS) protein-ligand docking. Methods: 3D homology models of TLK1 were derived from various servers including HOmology ModellER, i-Tasser, Psipred and Swiss Model. All models were evaluated using Swiss Model Q-Mean server. Only one model was selected for further analysis. Further validation was performed using PDBsum, 3d2go, ProSA, Procheck analysis and ERRAT. Energy minimization was performed using YASARA energy minimization server. Subsequently, HTVS was performed using Molegro Virtual Docker 6.0 and candidate ligands from ligand.info database. Ligand-docking procedures were analyzed at the putative catalytic site of TLK1. Drug-like molecules were filtered using FAF-Drugs3, which is an ADME-Tox filtering program. Results and conclusion: High quality homology models were obtained from the Aurora B kinase (PDB ID:4B8M) derived from Xenopus levias structure that share 33% sequence identity to TLK1. From the HTVS ligand-docking, two compounds were identified to be the potential inhibitors as it did not violate the Lipinski rule of five and the CNS-based filter as a potential drug-like molecule for GBM.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1582/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Oncology'], [u'UKM Medical Molecular Biology Institute, National University of Malaysia', u'Kulliyyah of Pharmacy, International Islamic University of Malaysia', u'Institute of Systems Biology, National University of Malaysia', u'KPJ Ampang Puteri Specialist Hospital', u'Faculty of Medicine, National University of Malaysia']]
[u'Transdisciplinary approach to solving conservation challenges: A case of Budongo Conservation Field Station, Uganda', ['Caroline Asiimwe', 'Geoffrey Muhanguzi', 'Eric Okwir', 'Paul Okimat', 'Andrew W Bugenyi', 'Timothy Mugabe', 'Fred Babweteera'], u'2016-03-10', u'The conservation of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) faces complex and dynamic threats, deriving mostly from anthropogenic factors such as high density and poverty in local human populations. One specific threat is poaching, which contributes to both permanent physical disabilities in chimpanzees and cross-species disease transmission. In the Sonso chimpanzee community, Budongo forest, Uganda, over 20% chimpanzees are permanently disabled by indiscriminate poachers\u2019 snare-trap. While severe injuries can sometimes result in death, little is known about the long-term health impacts of poaching to chimpanzees or possible effective mitigation measures. To combat and monitor the complexities of conservation threats, a holistic transdisciplinary approach is required and as a result, the Budongo Conservation Field Station (BCFS) has implemented a comprehensive strategy. Instead of focusing solely on chimpanzee health, our multi-faced tit-for-tat approach also incorporates education and action measures for local communities living adjacent to the forest. To reduce poaching, we provide alternative livelihood sources, veterinary services and education while concurrently employing their local indigenous knowledge of poaching practices to more effectively locate snares/traps in the forest. To mitigate disease transmission across species, beneficiaries in incentive programs must have functional sanitation facilities. To consistently monitor threats and conservation impacts, we routinely collect data on snare recovery and infectious disease prevalence in chimpanzees, humans and livestock. Our preliminary results, since the programs\u2019 inception, show a reduction in respiratory and gastrointestinal infections coupled with an increase in snare recovery from the forest. These findings suggest that our holistic approach is effective in mitigating the threats to chimpanzees in Budongo forest.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1848/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Veterinary and Conservation, Budongo Conservation Field Station', u'Management, Budongo Conservation Field Station', u'Conservation Department, Budongo Conservation Field Station', u'Department of Forestry Biodiversity and Tourism, Makerere University']]
[u'Mechano-adaptation of bone: Are all strains equal?', ['Jorn Rittweger'], u'2016-03-09', u'Bone research has been re-directed in the 1990s by three revolutions: firstly the recognition that bones respond to changes in their mechanical environment in a dose-dependent way; secondly by the idea that these changes in bone size can be understood as self-adaptation to variant forces by a servo-control mechanism (mechanostat theory); and thirdly by the proposition that muscles \u2018enslave\u2019 bone\u2019s mechan-adaptation. It has been an inherent assumption in most of these bone studies that bone deformations mostly result from bending and compression, and little to no attention was paid to torsional loading. Notably, axial strains dominate in axial loading, whilst torsional loading is associated with relatively large shear strains. To better understand the mechanical interplay between regional muscle contractions and bone deformations, my team performed the MUST-study: bone pins were inserted into the human tibia, and non-collinear retro-reflective marker clusters were affixed to these pins in order to assess translational and rotational tibia deformations. Results from that study revealed that torsion is a prevailing deformation type within the human tibia, and that tibia torsion is causally linked to calf muscle contractions. Simultaneously, a series of  in-silico experiments in our lab with a mechanostat model were undertaken. They revealed that torsion (i) is the most effective mode of bone deformation, and (ii) that it can explain the so-called flexure neutralization of miss-aligned fractures, which is inexplicable on grounds of compression and bending alone. Moreover, recent data also suggest that torsion, rather than impact may the bone-effective agent in the side-differences encountered in tennis players and baseball pitchers. Thus, I am currently following the idea of torsion as an effective deformation mode to elicit bone-anabolic responses. This is in contradiction to the main stream in bone research, which still regards impact loading as the most efficient way. Understanding and settling this question will be important in order to provide optimized exercise prescriptions that will maximize the benefits for bone, and minimize adverse events, such as joint sprains, cartilage damage, and tendon problems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1847/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Rheumatology'], [u'Institute of Aerospace Medicine, German Aerospace Center (DLR)', u'Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medcine, University of Cologne']]
[u'Dramatyping: A generic algorithm for detecting reasonable temporal correlations between drug administration and lab value alterations', ['Axel Newe'], u'2016-03-09', u'According to the World Health Organization, one of the criteria for the standardized assessment of case causality in adverse drug reactions is the temporal relationship between the intake of a drug and the occurrence of a reaction or a laboratory test abnormality. This article presents and describes an algorithm for the detection of a reasonable temporal correlation between the administration of a drug and the alteration of a laboratory value course. The algorithm is designed to process normalized lab values and is therefore universally applicable. It has a sensitivity of 0.932 for the detection of lab value courses that show changes in temporal correlation with the administration of a drug and it has a specificity of 0.967 for the detection of lab value courses that show no changes. Therefore the algorithm is appropriate to screen the data of electronic health records and to support human experts in revealing adverse drug reactions. A reference implementation in Python programming language is available.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1846/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Pharmacology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Chair of Medical Informatics, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg']]
[u'Constructing social identity? Potential non-nutritional functions of chimpanzee insectivory', ['Umaru Buba', 'Volker Sommer', 'Goncalo Jesus', 'Alejandra Pascual-Garrido'], u'2016-03-09', u'Many animals, including humans and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), eat insects, although frequencies vary greatly between populations. Insects are traditionally either seen as desired nourishment or a fallback fare compensating a shortage of preferred foods. We test these explanations against long-term data on chimpanzees at Gashaka, Nigeria. Here, chimpanzees harvest army ants much more frequently than elsewhere, while termite eating is completely absent. We report a pattern of strict seasonality in terms of rainfall and pronounced peaks in the abundance of fruit, the chimpanzees\u2019 preferred staple food. Even so, evidence based on recovered ant-dipping wands and chimpanzee faecal samples indicates that myrmecophagy does not decrease when fruit becomes more abundant. Instead, ant-eating is virtually constant year round and chimpanzees eat them every other day or so. This contradicts the fallback hypothesis and supports the hypothesis of ants as preferred food. Army ants may thus serve as a supplement or complement in terms of macro - or micronutrients to the chimpanzees. Nevertheless, it remains puzzling why termites are not eaten at Gashaka, despite apparent availability and technological skills to extract insects. We therefore propose that dietary choices are also likely to contain a social element. The non-consumption of a perfectly edible food-item may reflect a "taboo" that comes at some cost. Similarly, army ant gathering is associated with painful bites, and self-experiments suggest that the highly chitinous insects do not taste well, compared to smaller arboreal ants and termites. We speculate that, in this way, mental concepts of identity versus otherness may develop that strengthen group cohesion. We do not have sufficient data for Nigeria, but speculations about social identity based on community-dependent behavioural uniformity are open to empirical testing. The principal method would be to document natural instances of \u201cacculturation\u201d, when female chimpanzees transfer from their natal into a neighbouring community.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1845/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Taraba State University', u'Department of Anthropology, University College London', u'School of Archaeology, University of Oxford']]
[u'Raw material procurement for termite fishing tools in wild chimpanzees', ['Alejandra Pascual-Garrido', 'Volker Sommer', 'Katarina Almeida-Warren'], u'2016-03-09', u'Chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) termite fishing has been studied for decades. However, we still know little about how raw material for the extraction of tools is obtained. This is particularly true for potential selection criteria and what these imply for underlying cognitive mechanisms, such as forward planning. We employed traditional archaeological methods while studying termite fishing in two ecologically distinct habitats in western Tanzania: the Kasekela community, with approximately 55 habituated individuals who reside in the forests and woodlands of Gombe; and the Issa community of around 67 members, in process of habituation, who live in the more open, drier woodland-savannah of the Issa Valley. Results suggest that chimpanzees select particular species as tool sources, many of which are also food plants. Chimpanzees at both sites chose three identical species, perhaps for their especially suitable physical properties, like bark that is easy to peel off. At both sites, chimpanzees used plants close to termite mounds, but also from further away (up to 35 m), indicating a mixed strategy of opportunism and forward thinking. The populations also differed, in that Issa chimpanzees clearly preferred bark as raw material, while Gombe chimpanzees also used twigs and grass. Moreover, a quarter of sourced plants at Issa were not visible from the mound, and, compared to Gombe, on average 5 m further away. These disparities are likely caused by environmental differences, in that the more open and drier habitat at Issa might necessitate a higher degree of planning.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1844/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Zoology'], [u'School of Archaeology, University of Oxford', u'Department of Anthropology, University College London']]
[u'Chimpanzee population response to commercial hunting in south-east Cameroon', ['Jacob Willie', 'Nikki Tagg'], u'2016-03-09', u'Wildlife monitoring data provide an objective basis for evaluating conservation efforts and refining conservation strategies. Central chimpanzee nest censuses were conducted in La Belgique Research Site, south-east Cameroon, in 2001 (reference year) and 2014 using the Standing Crop Nest Count methodology. In both study years, 10 6-km transects traversing all habitat types were opened at a constant bearing of 45\xb0 to collect nest data. Analyses were performed in Distance 6.2. Chimpanzee nest density values (nests/km\xb2) were 112 and 69 in 2001 and 2014, respectively. These results suggest that chimpanzee numbers in the research site have dropped by 38.4% in 13 years. This is probably due to a strong commercial hunting pressure, especially since 2009, whereby gun hunting has become the de facto method for harvesting wildlife in the region. From the reference year till 2014, the study site had not been subject to devastating disease epidemics or major habitat disturbance from logging and agricultural activities. In the study site\u2212where the presence of conservation scientists and the constant sensitization within the rural communities raise awareness of the need for ape protection\u2212chimpanzees are not particularly targeted by hunters, and it is quite plausible that a number of individuals fled to adjacent forest patches where disturbance shooting is minimal. However, despite observed range shifts, chimpanzees persist in the region. In contexts where laws are not enforced rigorously enough, conservation research presence or other activities aiming at reinforcing the value of living great apes are crucial for the survival of these critically-endangered species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1843/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Royal Zoological Society of Antwerp, Centre for Research and Conservation', u'Ghent University, Terrestrial Ecology Unit']]
[u'Regiospecific synthesis of 2,3-disubstituted indoles from isatins', ['Artur Ulikowski', 'Anna Jaromin', 'Giorgia Brancolini', 'Luca Bellucci', 'Bartomiej Furman'], u'2016-03-09', u"Indoles represent a structural element in a myriad of natural products and biologically active molecules. Of special importance are 2,3-disubstituted indoles. Thus, a number of methods for their synthesis have been described. However, these are often hampered by a number of limitations: they often offer poor regioselectivity and suboptimal functional group tolerance. Also, they can normally be adapted to the procurement of a small subclass of indoles only. We have developed an approach to 2,3-disubstituted indoles overcoming these obstacles. By selectively activating the amide carbonyl in isatin-derived oxindoles, we obtained a number of the title compounds in a regiospecific and functional group-tolerant manner. The methodology is normally characterized by excellent yields. The reaction proceeds by chemoselective partial reduction of the amide moiety to an iminium salt and a subsequent nucleophilic addition followed by dehydration, which furnishes the target indole. A number of nucleophiles, including C- and S-nucleophiles, have been examined. The obtained compounds were studied towards acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitory activity, as the indole skeleton is often seen in the struc-ture of enzyme inhibitors. Cholinesterase inhibitors are used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, increasing available acetylcholine by decreasing the AChE activity. For the tested agents, properties like logP, logBBB (Blood-Brain Barier penetration) and Caco2 permeabilities were also calculated. Based on the predicted values, only two of them are able to penetrate into the CNS (central nervous system). Molecular docking was performed on the whole set of the syntesized indole derivatives, resulting in a wide range of AChE inhibitory activity. Molecular docking binding interactions reported the lowest energy conformations of the syntesized compounds and the key amino acid residues at the active binding site of AChE. The current synergy between computations and experiments provided the identification of the indole derivatives exhibiting the highest inhibitory activity. The presented results will provide theoretical guidance for further modification and optimization of the indole derivatives.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1842/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Institute of Organic Chemistry PAS', u'Department of Lipids and Liposomes, Faculty of Biotechnology, University of Wroc\u0142aw', u'CNR NANO S3, Institute of Nanoscience', u'UNIMORE - University of Modena and Reggio Emilia']]
[u'Food and nutritional security require adequate protein as well as energy, delivered from whole-year crop production', ['Graeme D Coles', 'Stephen D Wratten', 'John R Porter'], u'2016-03-09', u'Human food security requires the production of sufficient quantities of both high-quality protein and dietary energy. In a series of case-studies from New Zealand, we show that while production of food ingredients from crops on arable land can meet human dietary energy requirements effectively, requirements for high-quality protein are met more efficiently by animal production from such land. We present a model that can be used to assess dietary energy and quality-corrected protein production from various crop and crop/animal production systems, and demonstrate its utility. We extend our analysis with an accompanying economic analysis of commercially-available, pre-prepared or simply-cooked foods that can be produced from our case-study crop and animal products. We calculate the per-person, per-day cost of both quality-corrected protein and dietary energy as provided in the processed foods. We conclude that mixed dairy/cropping systems provide the greatest quantity of high-quality protein per unit price to the consumer, have the highest food energy production and can support the dietary requirements of the highest number of people, when assessed as all-year-round production systems. Global food and nutritional security will largely be an outcome of national or regional agro-economies addressing their own food needs. We hope that our model will be used for similar analyses of food production systems in other countries, agro-ecological zones and economies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1841/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Bio-Protection Reseach Centre, Lincoln University', u'Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, University of Copenhagen', u'Natural Resources Institute, University of Greenwich']]
[u'Medical device safety: Investigating contributions of human factors', ['Kathrin Lange'], u'2016-03-09', u'The core tasks of the Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (Bundesinstitut f\xfcr Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte [BfArM]) with respect to medical device safety include evaluating risks arising from the use or application of medical devices (based on incident reports), assessing and coordinating the counter-measures to be taken (i.e. corrective actions), and authorizing clinical trials of medical devices and evaluating the corresponding serious adverse events. Additionally, the BfArM also conducts research on medical device safety, specifically on the possibilities and challenges of data-driven approaches to detect and evaluate risk and on the contribution of human factors to device safety \u2013 i.e. factors that may have an impact on how users interact with a device. The present talk focuses on this latter issue. The significance of addressing human factors relating to the use of medical devices results from the contribution of human error to adverse events. For instance, an involvement of human error could be identified in a good 10% of the reports of suspected device-related incidents evaluated by the BfArM between 2005 and 2014. For several reasons, it may be assumed that the true value of device-related incidents involving human error is even larger and that the potential for human error is likely to increase in the future. To effectively reduce the risk for human error \u2013 or block its negative outcome - it is imperative to not only identify human error as a significant cause of adverse events, but rather understand the causation of the error, including the conditions under which errors are likely to occur. This requires the analysis of the perceptual, cognitive (e.g. attention, working memory, long term memory), motor or motivational processes involved and the identification of relevant factors at the various levels of the socio-technical system. In our research, we currently pursue two selected human factors issues, selected based on the incident-data collected at the BfArM and on the current literature: Insufficient device knowledge and the multi-faceted issue of device alarms, the latter including both the users\u2019 interactions with alarming devices and their perceptual, cognitive, or motor responses to the devices\u2019 alarms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1840/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Medical Devices Division, Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices']]
[u'Detecting heterogeneity in single-cell RNA-Seq data by non-negative matrix factorization', ['Xun Zhu', 'Travers Ching', 'Xinghua Pan', 'Sherman Weissman', 'Lana Garmire'], u'2016-03-09', u'Single-cell RNA-Sequencing (scRNA-Seq) is a cutting edge technology that enables the understanding of biological processes at an unprecedentedly high resolution. However, well suited bioinformatics tools to analyze the data generated from this new technology are still lacking. Here we have investigated the performance of non-negative matrix factorization (NMF) method to analyze a wide variety of scRNA-Seq data sets, ranging from mouse hematopoietic stem cells to human glioblastoma data. In comparison to other unsupervised clustering methods including K-means and hierarchical clustering, NMF has higher accuracy even when the clustering results of K-means and hierarchical clustering are enhanced by t-SNE. Moreover, NMF successfully detect the subpopulations, such as those in a single glioblastoma patient. Furthermore, in conjugation with the modularity detection method FEM, it reveals unique modules that are indicative of clinical subtypes. In summary, we propose that NMF is a desirable method to analyze heterogeneous single-cell RNA-Seq data, and the NMFEM pipeline is suitable for modularity detection among single-cell RNA-Seq data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1839/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics'], [u'Epidemiology Program, University of Hawaii Cancer Center', u'Molecular Biosciences and Bioengineering Graduate Program, University of Hawaii at Manoa', u'Department of Genetics, Yale University']]
[u'Enantioselective organocatalysis in the synthesis of biologically relevant compounds', ['Lukasz Albrecht'], u'2016-03-07', u'The development of methods for the preparation of biologically relevant compounds in an enantiomerically enriched form constitutes one of the most significant tasks in the contemporary organic chemistry. In particular, enantioselective reactions where prochiral substrates are converted into enantiomerically enriched products in the presence of chiral catalyst are of great importance. Recently, asymmetric organocatalysis, where simple organic molecules are used as catalysts of various enantiodifferentiating reactions, has become a highly useful synthetic tool enabling for the efficient asymmetric induction based on diverse activation modes. Herein, we report our studies on organocatalytic, enantioselective strategies for the synthesis of biologically relevant molecules such as: quaternary \u03b1-amino acids and their isoelectronic analogs \u03b1-aminophosphonates, benzo[1,5]oxazocines, \u03b1-methylidene-\u03b4-lactones, \u03b1-alkylidene-ketones, furfural derivatives, and benzothiophenes. The devised approaches utilize readily available chiral organocatalysts to control stereo-chemical reaction outcomes. Operational simplicity, efficiency and high enantio- and diastereoselectivities are the main benefits of the developed strategies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1838/', ['Drugs and Devices'], [u'Department of Chemistry/Institute of Organic Chemistry, Lodz University of Technology']]
[u'Healthy and disturbed sleep: from the laboratory to actigraphy', ['Thomas Penzel', 'Ingo Fietze'], u'2016-03-07', u'Sleep presents a third of human life and a healthy and restorative sleep is indispensable for a good performance during daytime. Human functions follow circadian rhythms and follow the need to relax and recover from daytime stressors. According to human senses and abilities this relaxation and recovery period is concentrated on nighttime. Sleep is shutting off senses and follow a dedicated program for recovery with light sleep, deep sleep and rapid eye movement sleep with different functions linked to these sleep phases and with different consequences for the physical and mental functions. Unfortunately in patients with sleep disorders this recovery program is disturbed. In order to identify reasons and in order to explore physical and mental problems related to this, sleep studies had been developed and are conducted in sleep medicine centers. Sleep medicine centers perform a cardiorespiratory polysomnography. During cardiorespiratory polysomnography brain functions and sleep stages are quantifed through assessing electroencephalography (EEG), electrooculography (EOG), electromyography (EMG) on the head and on the legs, electrocardiography (ECG), respiratory airflow, respiratory effort, oxygen concentration (SaO2), body position, and body movements. Because going to bed to find sleep is a behavioral action as well, we record video and sound in addition. This is done under laboratory conditions in a controlled and supervised setting, called sleep medicine center. Sleep disorders can be identified and are classified into six categories: insomnia, hypersomnia of central origin, sleep related breathing disorders, sleep related movement disorders, sleep-wake rhythm disorders, and parasomnias. In addition secondary sleep disorders due to medical or mental problems or due to substances or drugs are known as well. Due to the high prevalence of sleep disorders and sleep complaints there is an urgent need to develop and introduce simplified tools to identify sleep problems. For some sleep disorders protable recorder systems were developed. This is the case for sleep disordered breathing. For insomnia problems and sleep-wake rhythm disorders actigraphy systems are used. Only based on the recording of movement and motion using statistical analysis it is possible to distinguish sleep and wake with a good accuracy and reliability. This method is used to study sleep duration as well as sleep fragmentation to some extent. A study on sleep duration and impaired sleep in ballet dancers over a period of 60 days prior to a major premiere event is presented.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1837/', ['Bioengineering'], [u'Center of Sleep Medicine, Charit\xe9 - Universit\xe4tsmedizin Berlin']]
[u'Development and validation of gas chromatography methods for the control of volatile impurities in the pharmaceutical substance dutasteride', ['Aleksandra Groman', 'Elzbieta U. Stolarczyk', 'Marta Jatczak', 'Elzbieta Lipiec-Abramska'], u'2016-03-07', u'Dutasteride, N-[2,5-Bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-oxo-4-aza-5\u03b1-androst-1-ene-17\u03b2-carboxamide, is an active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) which inhibits the conversion of testosterone to dihydrotestosterone. Dutasteride as a 5-reductase inhibitor is useful for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and prostate cancer. Because of a large variety of solvents and reagents used in the synthesis, it was necessary to develop new, sensitive and selective gas chromatography (GC) methods. The optimization of the methods consisted in selecting different types of sample injection and detection as well as optimization of experimental conditions that allowed to meet the appropriate range (10-120% of the specification limit) and suitable detection limits (LOD) of compounds. Significant differences in the volatility of these compounds forced the division into volatile solvents (methanol, acetonitrile, dichloromethane, ethyl acetate, heptane and toluene) analyzed with the use of the gas chromatography with headspace (GC-HS) and less volatile compounds (pyridine, dimethylformamide, 1,4-dioxane, acetic acid, ethylene glycol, 4-dimethylaminopyridine) analyzed with the use of gas chromatography with direct injection (GC-FID). Benzene, carbon tetrachloride and 1,2-dichloroethane are potential contaminants of toluene and dichloromethane, thus the control of these solvents was a limit test procedure. Due to the low specification limits for benzene (2 ppm), carbon tetrachloride (4 ppm) and 1,2-dichloroethane (5 ppm) it was neccesery to use gas chromatography with mass spectrometry detection (GC-MS).\nAll three new methods were validated according to the requirements of the ICH (International Conference on Harmonization) validation guideline Q2R1 and the guideline for residual solvents Q3C. Specificity, precision, accuracy, linearity, limits of detection and quantitation and robustness were determined and the results meeting the acceptance criteria were obtained.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1836/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Analytical Chemistry Department, Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'The investigation of polymorph transition of erlotinib salts', ['Wioleta Maruszak', 'Marta  Laszcz', 'Kinga Trzcinska', 'Wojciech  Luniewski', 'Krzysztof Bankowski', 'Kamil Jatczak'], u'2016-03-07', u'Erlotinib is a reversible tyrosine kinase inhibitor, which acts on the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and is used to treat non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), pancreatic cancer and several other types of cancer [1]. It is known that erlotinib forms different salts which can exist in multiple crystalline solid forms. This important property known as a polymorphism may have an impact on physical and chemical stability of the drug substance (API), processability during manufacturing in the final drug product and bioavailability of the drug to the patient. Changes in the crystal structure of API can lead to the undesired changes in properties. Hence, the control of the polymorphic form is essential during the drug substance manufacture and requires a thorough understanding of solid-state changes that may occur in pharmaceutical materials. To achieve a comprehensive understanding of solid-state transformations different analytical techniques are applied. In our studies the variable\u2013temperature powder X-ray diffraction (VT\u2013PXRD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetry (TGA), Fourier transformed infrared (FTIR), attenuated total reflectance (ATR) and Raman spectroscopy were used to investigate the correlation between the thermal behavior and structural transformations of polymorphic forms of erlotinib salts. VT-PXRD method has detected the temperature range of the existence of polymorphic transitions, spectroscopy methods have characterized intramolecular vibrations and thermal methods have provided information on the transition and melting temperature and relationships between polymorphic forms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1835/', ['Oncology', 'Palliative Care'], [u'R&D Analytical Chemistry Department, Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'Long-term bedrest study and astronaut training', ['Edwin Mulder', 'Alexandra Noppe', 'Ulrich Limper'], u'2016-03-07', u'In the context of space physiology, research is being conducted to understand the physiological effects from radiation, hypogravity, spaceflight and planetary environments. The goal is to identify new methods to address the unique challenges in medical treatment, human factors, and behavioral health support on future exploration missions. As crew size is small and time is limited during actual missions, space agencies resort to addressing the effects of space travel in analog environments that have features similar to those of spaceflight. Head-down tilt bed rest (HDBR), for instance, is one of the established terrestrial models used to simulate some of the physiological changes experienced during spaceflight under weightless conditions and is therefore considered a valuable testbed to prepare for future long-duration exploration missions. HDBR studies are performed in extremely-well controlled laboratory settings, offering the possibility to test the effects of \u2013 what is in essence - physical inactivity and fluid shift. However, HDBR studies have a dual purpose, as they are also invaluable for the development, testing and validation of countermeasures aimed at mitigating microgravity-induced changes to the human body. With respect to the latter, the consensus is that short-term bed rest studies (< 14 days) serve foremost as a first screening of potential promising countermeasures, particularly for the cardiovascular system. Screening of preventative procedures and protocols for the muscular system requires at least mid-term (14 -28 days), whereas studies aiming to validate countermeasures for bone require long-term HDBR studies, in the order of 60-90 days. Hitherto the preferred countermeasure during spaceflight has been physical exercise. The presentation will therefore provide a short overview of the current onboard exercise regimen and will, in light of this, outline the scientific background and aims of the ongoing 60-day HDBR study at the :envihab (from the words \u2018Environment\u2019 and \u2018Habitat\u2019), the DLR Institute of Aerospace Medicine\u2019s state-of-the-art research facility.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1834/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Kinesiology'], [u'Institute of Aerospace Medicine, German Aerospace Center (DLR)']]
[u'A gene expression signature for defining aggressive phenotype and prognosis in intermediate-risk acute myeloid leukemia', ['Ailing Deng'], u'2016-03-07', u'Intermediate-risk AML is a group of heterogeneous disease, complete and accurate understanding of their molecular pattern are urgent. We downloaded gene expression profile from TCGA, and performed the differential gene expression analysis of 98 intermediate-risk AML patients according to the different clinical outcome. By studying the overlap of differential genes based on OS and EFS classification, we identified 6 distinct genes (SPANXC, ADAMTS15, C8B, FAM183A, FLJ42875 and PXDN). Only FLJ42875 and PXDN were relatively widely expressed in intermediate-risk AML. Moreover, Q1 (0-25%) of PXDN was associated significantly shortened OS and EFS (P=0.0001, P=0.0032, respectively), while OS and EFS of Q2 (25-50%) of FLJ42875 expression group were significantly longer than that of low FLJ42875 expression patients (P=0.0157, P=0.0074, respectively). In the multivariable model of OS, PXDN Q1 group had a shorter OS and EFS (P < 0.001, P =0.009; respectively). While FLJ42875 Q2 group had a tendency of prolonged OS and EFS (P=0.050, P=0.023; respectively). Our results suggest that FLJ42875 and PXDN may play a role in the leukemogenesis of intermediate-risk AML.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1833/', ['Hematology'], [u'Medicine college, Nankai University']]
[u'Synthesis and analytical characterization of gold nanoparticles for anticancer drug delivery application', ['Elzbieta U. Stolarczyk', 'Krzysztof Stolarczyk', 'Marek Kubiszewski', 'Marta  Laszcz', 'Wioleta Maruszak'], u'2016-03-07', u'For many years research has been carried out to form selective drug carriers. Gold nanoparticles (AuNP) are of particular interest. New perspectives of these nanoparticles as drug carries include: the use of drugs which are poorly soluble in water, targeted delivery of drugs, transport by barrier membranes, the possibility of macromolecular drug release, "combined" treatment - two or more drugs, securing faster mechanisms of action and improved efficiency of drugs. Drug-modified gold nanoparticles (R-AuNP) have been synthesized in a single-phase system based on the reduction of hydrogen tetrachloroaurate (III) using the stabilizing ligand. The color change from yellow to deep ruby red indicated the formation of gold nanoparticles. The formation of stabilized gold nanoparticles was confirmed by the observation of the surface plasmon resonance band. Varying drug concentrations and kinds of solvents were used for the reduction of tetrachloroaurate to determine the effect of drug/ligand concentration and solvent type on the formation of AuNPs. The stability of newly synthesized R-AuNPs was characterized using UV-Vis spectroscopy. The conjugated particles (the resulting AuNPs) were characterized by several techniques, including transmission electron microscopy (TEM), UV-Vis spectroscopy, infrared spectroscopy (IR), Raman spectroscopy, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR), capillary electrophoresis, electrochemical techniques and zeta potential measurement. In any application of the AuNPs, it is important first to determine their basic physico-chemical characteristics, such as, e.g. size, shape, mono- or polydispersity, UV\u2013Vis spectra, electrokinetic potential as well as other special parameters and analytical methods employed in the characterization of the AuNPs. TEM is a powerful and straightforward method for the determination of size (including size distribution) and shape of the AuNPs. UV\u2013Vis absorption spectrophotometry allows for an in situ direct analysis of colloidal solutions. The position of the observed band maxima (typically in the range 500 \u2013 600 nm) is usually related to particle size. However, the position of the surface-plasmon resonance (SPR) maximum cannot be directly related to the particle size of the NPs and other factors have to be considered. The capillary electrophoresis is the method applied to confirm the formation of nanoparticles as well as to determine the drug residuals in the leachate during the purification of the conjugates. By means of infrared and Raman spectroscopy it is possible to study the molecular species deposited on the AuNPs. The NMR spectroscopy and electrochemical techniques are used to confirm the attached drugs. Complete structural characterization of the organic molecules attached to the AuNPs surface was carried out.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1832/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Oncology'], [u'Analytical Chemistry Department, Pharmaceutical Research Institute', u'Faculty of Chemistry, University of Warsaw']]
[u'Guideline compliance related to indwelling urinary catheters in 34 Norwegian nursing homes - findings and implications', ['Laila Aarnes', 'Karin Harris', 'Ase I Skare', 'John R Andersen'], u'2016-03-07', u"Background For patients in health institutions urinary tract infections often have significant negative health consequences. Indwelling urinary catheters and inappropriate practice related to this is a strong risk factor for urinary tract infections. Thus, a national guideline promotes best practice for handling indwelling urinary catheters. The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of patients with indwelling urinary catheters in 34 Norwegian nursing homes. Furthermore, we wanted to study whether health professionals followed the national guidelines related to indwelling urinary catheters. If the study reveals room for improvements, it may indicate interventions which can contribute to improvements in the health care institutions. Methods We conducted a quantitative survey in health care professionals who worked in nursing homes in from Sogn og Fjordane county (Norway), and asked them to which extent guidelines related to indwelling urinary catheters were used at their work place. The study also included data on the prevalence of indwelling urinary catheters in 830 patients (565 women and 265 men) in the 34 nursing homes. We also conducted a clinical audit in these nursing homes in order to study the how the guidelines were implemented. An overall assessment was made (satisfactory or not satisfactory) on whether 11 dimensions of the guidelines were followed (Table 2). When \u2265 80% of the nursing homes had a score = yes/usually to the items above it was considered satisfactory. The evaluations from the clinical audits were based on an overall judgment of the finding at the nursing homes. The study was approved by the Western Norway Hospital Trust as part of a quality assessment strategy. An approval from the regional ethical committee was not needed as the study was a quality assessment project and did not include any individual patient data. Results Our findings shows that 92 of 830 patients had a indwelling urinary catheter the day of prevalence assessment, and significantly more men (21.1%) than women (6.7%) had a indwelling urinary catheter (Fisher's exact test; P <0.001. Overall, the survey showed that compliance with the guidelines was unsatisfactory with one exception; the doctor prescribed the posting of indwelling urinary catheters (Table 2 and 3). Conclusions In conclusion, most areas we investigated need improvements. The survey itself may be a key to change the nursing staff`s attitudes and culture and to gain increased competence. In addition, it seems necessary to have good data solutions as well as leadership anchoring in further work on implementing best practice in handling indwelling urinary catheters.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1820/', ['Geriatrics', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Nursing', 'Urology', 'Ethical Issues'], [u'F\xf8rde Central Hospital, F\xf8rde Hospital Trust', u'Faculty of health studies, Sogn og Fjordane University College']]
[u'RNA interference in gene cloning/expression', ['Vikash Bhardwaj'], u'2016-03-07', u'DNA cloning is a simple, straightforward process. It has been put into practice as a standard lab procedure for cloning the gene of interest for specific protein expression and other molecular or cellular studies. The present study is the first of its kind to hypothesize the formation of interfering recombinant plasmid during a DNA cloning reaction that is believed to interfere with the protein or gene expression. This might lead to a false conclusion in a cellular study and also may lower the protein expression during the production stage.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1831/', ['Biotechnology', 'Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Genetic Engineering and Molecular Biology Domain, Lovely Professional University']]
[u'Copper(II) complexes of Schiff base ligands as promising anticancer agents', ['Elzbieta Hejchman', 'Barbara Sowirka', 'Magdalena Tomczyk', 'Dorota Maciejewska'], u'2016-03-07', u'Based on World Health Organization (WHO) report, it was estimated that one in five people before age 75 will suffer from cancer during their lifetime, and more than 13 million cancers death will happen in 2030. Chemotherapy is a basic approach for the treatment of cancer diseases. However, because of drug resistance and considerable side effects drug-induced toxicity, the discovery of new metal analogs with promising activity and high therapeutic index is an urgent need. The fundamental role of copper and the recognition of its complexes as important bioactive compounds in vitro and in vivo aroused an ever-increasing interest in these agents as potential drugs for therapeutic intervention in various diseases. Schiff bases are a critical class of compounds in medical chemistry that have demonstrated significant chemotherapeutic and antibacterial application. Schiff base Cu(II) complexes revealed great potential for antiproliferative, antibacterial, and gastroprotective activity. Coumarins are a wide class of natural and synthetic compounds that showed diverse pharmacological activities including anticancer activity. Among the wide variety of coumarins, 7-hydroxycoumarin derivatives have been shown to possess desirable antiproliferative activities. In particular, their antibacterial, antifungal and anticancer activities make the compounds attractive for further derivatization and screening as novel therapeutic agents. Taking these compounds as lead, we have designed and synthesized a series of new copper(II) complexes with coumarin-derived Schiff base ligands. Two series of Schiff bases were prepared by condensation of 8-formyl-7-hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin and 8-acetyl-7-hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin with p-substituted aniline derivatives. These compounds were used as ligands in the synthesis of copper(II) complexes. The obtained Schiff bases as well as copper complexes are mostly novel molecules. Only the products of condensation 8-formyl-7-hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin with p-toluidine and 8-acetyl-7-hydroxy-4-methylcoumarin with p-toluidine and its copper(II) complex were synthesized, but the anticancer activity of these compounds was not determined. The assay of their cytotoxic activity is in progress. Preliminary, we have identified two copper(II) coordination compounds of 7-hydroxy-8-[1-(4-methoxyphenyl imino)ethyl]-4-methyl-2H-chromen-2-one and 7-hydroxy-8-[1-(4-hydroxyphenyloimino)ethyl]-4-methyl-2H- chromen-2-one having dose-dependent antiproliferative activity on HeLa cancer cell line. Additionally, the Schiff bases \u2013 derivatives of substituted salicylaldehydes and 2-hydroxyacetophenones condensed with appropriate anilines were prepared. Such compounds have been reported in scientific papers, their copper complexes have not been assayed yet, and may serve as an useful tool in QSAR investigation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1830/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Oncology'], [u'Faculty of Pharmacy, Medical University of Warsaw']]
[u'The Clawpack 5.x software', ['Kyle T Mandli', 'Aaron J Ahmadia', 'Marsha Berger', 'Donna Calhoun', 'David L George', 'Yiannis Hadjimichael', 'David I Ketcheson', 'Grady I Lemoine', 'Randall J LeVeque'], u'2016-03-07', u'Clawpack is a software package designed to solve nonlinear hyperbolic partial differential equations using high-resolution finite volume methods based on Riemann solvers and limiters. The package includes a number of variants aimed at different applications and user communities. Clawpack has been actively developed as an open source project for over 20 years. The latest major release, Clawpack 5, introduces a number of new features and changes to the code base and a new development model based on GitHub and Git submodules. This article provides a summary of the most significant changes, the rationale behind some of these changes, and a description of our current development model.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1829/', ['Distributed and Parallel Computing', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Department of Applied Physics and Applied Mathematics, Columbia University', u'Continuum Analytics', u'Courant Institute, New York University', u'Department of Mathematics, Boise State University', u'Cascade Volcano Observatory, United States Geological Survey', u'Applied Mathematics and Computational Science, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology', u'CD-adapco', u'Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Washington']]
[u'Beyond p-values in the evaluation of brain-computer interfaces', ['Filip Melinscak', 'Luis Montesano'], u'2016-03-07', u'To statistically evaluate the performance of brain-computer interfaces (BCIs), researchers usually rely on null hypothesis significance testing (NHST), i.e. p-values. However, over-reliance on NHST is often identified as one of the causes of the recent reproducibility crisis in psychology and neuroscience. In this paper we propose Bayesian estimation as an alternative to NHST in the analysis of BCI performance data. For the three most common experimental designs in BCI research - which would usually be analyzed using a t-test, a linear regression, or an ANOVA - we develop hierarchical models and estimate their parameters using Bayesian inference. Furthermore, we show that the described models are special cases of the hierarchical generalized linear model (HGLM), which we propose as a general framework for the analysis of BCI performance. The HGLM framework allows the analysis of complex experimental designs with multiple levels of hierarchy (e.g. multiple sessions, multiple subjects, multiple groups) and can accommodate different types of non-normal data (e.g. classification accuracy), which are often analyzed under inappropriate assumptions with NHST. We demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed models on three real datasets and show how the results obtained with Bayesian estimation can give a more nuanced insight into BCI performance data, compared to NHST. Therefore we believe that a wider adoption of the Bayesian estimation approach in BCI studies could bring about greater transparency in data analysis, allow accumulation of knowledge across studies, and reduce questionable practices such as "p-hacking". To achieve this goal, we provide all the data and code necessary to reproduce the presented results, allowing BCI researchers to use Bayesian estimation in their own work.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1828/', ['Neuroscience', 'Statistics', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Bit&Brain Technologies', u'Aragon Institute of Engineering Research (I3A), University of Zaragoza']]
[u'On causality of extreme events', ['Massimiliano Zanin'], u'2016-03-07', u'Multiple metrics have been developed to detect causality relations between data describing the elements constituting complex systems, all of them considering their evolution through time. Here we propose a metric able to detect causality within static data sets, by analysing how extreme events in one element correspond to the appearance of extreme events in a second one. The metric is able to detect both linear and non-linear causalities; to analyse both cross-sectional and longitudinal data sets; and to discriminate between real causalities and correlations caused by confounding factors. We validate the metric through synthetic data, dynamical and chaotic systems, and data representing the human brain activity in a cognitive task.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1827/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Neuroscience', 'Statistics'], [u'R&D, Innaxis Foundation & Research Institute']]
[u'The macroevolution of size and complexity in insect male genitalia', ['Andrey Rudoy', 'Ignacio Ribera'], u'2016-03-06', u'The evolution of insect male genitalia has received much attention, but there is still a lack of data on the macroevolutionary origin of its extraordinary variation. We used a calibrated molecular phylogeny of 71 of the 150 known species of the beetle genus Limnebius to study the evolution of the size and complexity of the male genitalia in its two subgenera, Bilimneus, with small species with simple genitalia, and Limnebius s.str., with a much larger variation in size and complexity. We reconstructed ancestral values of complexity (perimeter and fractal dimension of the aedeagus) and genital and body size with Bayesian methods. Complexity evolved more in agreement with a Brownian model, although with evidence of weak directional selection to a decrease or increase in complexity in the two subgenera respectively, as measured with an excess of branches with negative or positive change. On the contrary, aedeagus size, the variable with the highest rates of evolution, had a lower phylogenetic signal, without significant differences between the two subgenera in the average change of the individual branches of the tree. Aedeagus size also had a lower correlation with time and no evidence of directional selection. Rather than to directional selection, it thus seems that the higher diversity of the male genitalia in Limnebius s.str. is mostly due to the larger variance of the phenotypic change in the individual branches of the tree for all measured variables.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1826/', ['Biodiversity', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute of Evolutionary Biology (CSIC-Universitat Pompeu Fabra)']]
[u'The FDA adaptive trial design guidance in a nutshell - A review in Q&A; format for decision makers', ['Klaus Gottlieb'], u'2016-03-04', u'The FDA adaptive trial design guidance (1) is a thoughtful but lengthy document that explains on 50 pages wide-ranging and important topics \u201csuch as ... what aspects of adaptive design trials (i.e., clinical, statistical, regulatory) call for special consideration, ... when to interact with FDA while planning and conducting adaptive design studies, ... what information to include in the adaptive design for FDA review, and ... issues to consider in the evaluation of a completed adaptive design study.\u201d [20-24]. The advice in the guidance is often misinterpreted, misquoted or ignored. This is unfortunate because an appropriate use of adaptive designs could increase the chances of success in drug development programs. Decision makers rely on the advice of regulatory affairs professionals and statisticians to interpret the guidance. Unfortunately, many clinical trial statisticians and regulatory professionals only have a rudimentary understanding of the guidance, presumably because the document is somewhat inscrutable for both audiences, too \u2018regulatory\u2019 for statisticians, too \u2018statistical\u2019 for regulatory people. This digest was therefore written with three goals in mind: 1) Make the content of the guidance more accessible through a question & answer format, 2) shorten the content from 50 to 10 pages by excerpting the most important dictums, and 3) keep fidelity to the original guidance by frequent use of direct quotes with reference to the respective lines in the original FDA guidance where the quote can be found in square brackets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1825/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Statistics'], [u'Ubiontis LLC']]
[u'Euglenas under the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants: a practical approach', ['Eduardo A Molinari-Novoa'], u'2016-03-04', u'The present work intends to demonstrate why the euglenas (Euglenophyceae) should be treated under the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants (ICN, from now on). Most comprehensive treatments for the group have been made under previous versions of the ICN, and Google Scholar provide more hits when botanical terms (as \u201ceuglenophyta, euglenophyceae\u201d) are introduced than when zoological terms (\u201ceuglenid, euglenozoa\u201d) are used. Finally, recent scholars dealing with these algae considered themselves botanists.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1824/', ['Biodiversity', 'Cell Biology', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'\u201cAugusto Weberbauer\u201d Herbarium (MOL), Department of Biology, Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina']]
[u'Faunal communities are invariant to fragmentation in experimental seagrass landscapes', ['Jonathan S Lefcheck', 'Scott R Marion', 'Alfonso V Lombana', 'Robert J Orth'], u'2016-03-04', u'Human-driven habitat fragmentation is cited as one of the most pressing threats facing many coastal ecosystems today. Many experiments have explored the consequences of fragmentation on fauna in one such foundational habitat, seagrass beds, but have either surveyed along a gradient of existing patchiness, used artificial materials to mimic a natural bed, or sampled over short timescales. Here, we describe faunal responses to constructed fragmented landscapes varying from 4-400 m2 in two transplant garden experiments incorporating live eelgrass (Zostera marina L.). In experiments replicated within two subestuaries of the Chesapeake Bay, USA across multiple seasons and non-consecutive years, we comprehensively censused faunal communities, from mesopredators to epifaunal grazers, using complementary quantitative methods. We found that community properties, including abundance, species richness, Simpson and functional diversity, and composition were generally unaffected by the amount of habitat, the size of the landscape, or the intensity of sampling. Additionally, an index of competition based on species co-occurrences revealed no trends with increasing patch size, contrary to theoretical predictions. We extend conclusions concerning the invariance of animal communities to habitat fragmentation from small-scale observational surveys and artificial experiments to experiments conducted with actual living plants and at realistic scales. Our findings are likely a consequence of the rapid life histories and high mobility of the organisms common to eelgrass beds in this region, and have implications for both conservation and restoration, suggesting that even small patches can rapidly promote abundant and diverse faunal communities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1823/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Institute of Marine Science, The College of William & Mary', u'Marine Resources Program, Oregon Department of Fish & Wildlife']]
[u'Attractor-based kinematic gait analysis - methodological & clinical considerations', ['Manfred M Vieten', 'Christian Dettmers'], u'2016-03-04', u'The attractor method and some of its applications are presented. We start with the original research question \u201cHow to diagnose fatigue (fatigability) in MS patients reliably\u201d. So far a decisive method to discriminate between non-fatiguing and marginal fatiguing patients was not available. Traditional kinematic methods looking at step length, width, height, time, cadence, speed etc. and non-linear methods considering the Lyapunov exponent are able to describe groups of fatiguing populations but unable to diagnose fatigue of single individuals reliably. Therefore, this novel method based on attractor attributes was developed (Vieten, Sehle, & Jensen, 2013). The core idea behind the method is the description of a cyclic movement as a state vector described in terms of a limit cycle attractor and the variation of a well-defined magnitude around it. For the experimental setup of the gait analysis we use two three-axial sensors mounted on each foot to acquire acceleration data of subjects walking at a constant speed on a treadmill. Those data constitute a subset of the state vector describing walking, rich in information content and sensitive enough to quantify subtle changes in the movement pattern and in the variability. The low frequency information of the sensor data is used to calculate the attractor and the variation of the state vector around it. We established three parameters: \u03b4M the speed normalized mean distance between two attractors - a measure of movement pattern differences; \u03b4D the measure of variation changes between two measurements; \u03b4F = \u03b4M \xb7 \u03b4D the \u201cFatigue index Kliniken Schmieder (FKS)\u201d, a measure describing fatigability. The accuracy of the method is shown and its ability to quantify subtle differences demonstrated. The presentation ends with some applications.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1822/', ['Biophysics', 'Neuroscience', 'Kinesiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Sport Science, Universit\xe4t Konstanz', u'Neurology, Kliniken Schmieder Konstanz']]
[u'Detection of phase transitions in the studies of active substances and solid dosage forms', ['Marta  Laszcz', 'Kinga Trzcinska', 'Anna Witkowska'], u'2016-03-04', u'Polymorphism is the ability of a compound in the solid state to exist in different crystalline forms. Molecules, having the same chemical composition, exhibit different spatial arrangements and/or exist in different configurations and conformations. In pseudopolymorphs (solvates) molecules of solvents are incorporated into the crystal lattice. Contrary to the crystalline forms of polymorphs, amorphous forms are characterized by the lack of long-range molecule arrangements. The spatial arrangement of molecules in an active substance determines its physical properties and influences the bioavailability and stability of a drug product. The most frequent phase transitions that can be present in an active substance include: polymorphic transition, hydration, dehydration, amorphisation and crystallization. The knowledge about the phase transitions which can arise during the active substance manufacturing, formulation process and stability studies is very important. Phase transitions may lead to the formation of an undesirable phase of the active substance with different properties than its desirable form. Studies of phase transitions in an active substance contained in a solid dosage form are very complicated, because there are many additional factors to consider, including a small concentration of the active substance, the presence of crystalline and amorphous placebo constituents, as well as the interactions between the active substance and the excipients. There are a number of methods used to characterize crystalline and amorphous forms of the active substance. A definitive evidence of polymorphism or pseudopolymorphism is the demonstration of a nonequivalent structure by single crystal X-ray diffraction. X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD) and variable temperature X-ray powder diffraction (VT-XRPD) can also be used to provide an unequivocal proof of polymorphism and pseudopolymorphism. Other methods, including e.g. differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA) as well as Raman (RS) and infrared spectroscopes (IR), help to further characterize the crystalline and amorphous forms. In this presentation, a few examples of phase transition studies in the active substances and solid dosage forms will be discussed: structural and physicochemical studies of olopatadine hydrochloride conformational polymorphs, phase transitions of dutasteride performed by the VT-XRPD method, erlotynib polymorphism studies performed by means of RS and the evaluation of analytical methods for the detection of phase transitions in tablets containing aripiprazole and imatinib.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1821/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Public Health'], [u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'The orange spotted cockroach (Blaptica dubia, Serville 1839) is a permissive experimental host for Francisella tularensis', ['Bridget E Eklund', 'Tricia Gilson', 'Osama Mahdi', 'Jason F Huntley', 'Joseph Horzempa', 'Nathan A Fisher'], u'2016-03-04', u'Francisella tularensis is a zoonotic bacterial pathogen that causes severe disease in a wide range of host animals, including humans. Well-developed murine models of F. tularensis pathogenesis are available, but they do not meet the needs of all investigators. Instead, researchers are increasingly turning to insect host systems to: (1) allow high-throughput that is cost-prohibitive or ethically-questionable in mammals; (2) enable studies of host-pathogen interactions when mammalian facilities are unavailable; and (3) provide valuable information about environmental persistence and transmission. However, the utility of previously-described insect hosts is limited because of temperature restriction, short lifespans, and concerns about the immunological status of insects mass-produced for other purposes. Here, we present a novel host species, the orange spotted (OS) cockroach (Blaptica dubia), that overcomes these limitations and is readily infected by F. tularensis. Intrahemocoel inoculation was accomplished using standard laboratory equipment and lethality was directly proportional to the number of bacteria injected. Disease progression differed in insects housed at low and high temperatures, a pattern indicative of a switch between virulence and transmission phenotypes. As in mammalian hosts, F. tularensis mutants lacking key virulence components were attenuated in OS cockroaches. Finally, antibiotics were delivered to infected OS cockroaches by systemic injection and controlled feeding; in the latter case, protection correlated with oral bioavailability in mammals. Collectively, these results demonstrate that this new host system should facilitate discovery of factors that control F. tularensis virulence, immune evasion, and transmission while also providing a platform for early stage drug discovery and development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1524/', ['Entomology', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Russel and Anna Duncan Undergraduate Research Program, College of Agriculture, Food Systems and Natural Resources, North Dakota State University', u'Department of Veterinary and Microbiological Sciences, North Dakota State University', u'Department of Natural Sciences and Mathematics, West Liberty University', u'Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of Toledo', u'Department of Public Health, North Dakota State University', u'Drug Development Division, Southern Research']]
[u'Genetic structure of the Crown-of-Thorns seastar in the Pacific Ocean, with focus on Guam', ['Sergio Tusso', 'Kerstin Morcinek', 'Catherine Vogler', 'Peter J Schupp', 'Ciemon F Caballes', 'Sergio Vargas', 'Gert Woerheide'], u'2016-03-04', u'Population outbreaks of the corallivorous crown-of-thorns seastar (COTS), Acanthaster \u2018planci\u2019 L., are among the most important biological disturbances of tropical coral reefs. Over the past 50 years, several devastating outbreaks have been documented around Guam, an island in the western Pacific Ocean. Previous analyses have shown that in the Pacific Ocean, COTS larval dispersal may be geographically restricted to certain regions. Here, we assess the genetic structure of Pacific COTS populations and compared samples from around Guam with a number of distant localities in the Pacific Ocean, and focused on determining the degree of genetic structure among populations previously considered to be isolated. Using microsatellites, we document substantial genetic structure between 14 localities from different geographical regions in the Pacific Ocean. Populations from the 14 locations sampled were found to be structured in three significantly differentiated groups: (1) all locations immediately around Guam, as well as Kingman Reef and Swains Island; (2) Japan, Philippines, GBR and Vanuatu; and (3) Johnston Atoll, which was significantly different from all other localities. The most stark divergence of these groupings from previous studies is the lack of genetic differentiation between Guam and extremely distant populations from Kingman Reef and Swains Island. These findings suggest potential long-range dispersal of COTS in the Pacific, and highlight the importance of ecological determinants in shaping genetic structure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1167/', ['Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Palaeontology & Geobiology, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen', u'Department of Anatomy (Neuroanatomy), University of Cologne', u'Environment Department, P\xf6yry Switzerland Ltd.', u'Institute for Chemistry and Biology of the Marine Environment, Carl von Ossietzky University of Oldenburg', u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University']]
[u'Expressed and understood gestural repertoires of wild bonobos (Pan paniscus)', ['Kirsty E Graham', 'Catherine Hobaiter', 'Richard W Byrne'], u'2016-03-04', u'Research on great ape gestural communication has hitherto prioritised the signaller, focusing on the expressed repertoire, the set of gesture types that an individual deploys. In this study of wild bonobos (Pan paniscus), we also examine the understood repertoire, the set of gesture types that a recipient understands: a recipient understands a gesture if they respond to the signaller with an Apparently Satisfactory Outcome (ASO). Combining the understood and expressed repertoires substantially expands an individual\u2019s overall repertoire. Hence, we propose that including the understood repertoire better represents an individual\u2019s actual communicative repertoire, and may for the first time reveal gesture types received exclusively by specific subsets of individuals. Significant differences between expressed and understood repertoires might result from two things: (1) gestures are ritualised between signallers and recipients and may therefore be unidirectional in some cases, or (2) the circumstances of use differ among age-sex groups, limiting the need for an individual to use a certain gesture type. In the latter, we expect consistency in particular age-sex groups whereas unidirectional comprehension as a result of ritualization would predict random distribution among individuals. We further compare our dataset with and without gesture instances occurring in play, as play may be a context in which individuals deploy gestures that they rarely or never use otherwise. Assessing the understood repertoire is a useful tool for animal communication researchers, not only allowing shorter study-periods, but also to discover gesture types specific to subsets of individuals, which may reveal much about a species\u2019 social behaviour.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1819/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of St. Andrews']]
[u'Socio-behavioral convergence in female affiliative behaviors in Pan and Ateles', ['Michelle A Rodrigues', 'Emily R Boeving'], u'2016-03-02', u'Pan and Ateles converge in many aspects of their social organization. Both are characterized by a high degree of fission-fusion dynamics, in which species exhibit high variation in party size, composition, and spatial cohesion. Within this framework, chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and spider monkeys (Ateles sp.) exhibit the most similarity in subgrouping patterns and social relationships. Specifically, significant overlap is found in the context of female social relationships and patterns of male-female aggression. Here, we examine how affiliative behaviors mediate female social relationships in captive spider monkeys, chimpanzees, and bonobos. Focal data were collected from five female Ateles geoffroyi at Brookfield Zoo (mean age=13.2, range: 7-21), five female bonobos at Columbus Zoo (mean age=22.0, range: 7-31), and five chimpanzees at North Carolina Zoo (mean age=20.4, range: 15-43). Female dyads did not differ in their rates of total or directional grooming, but spider monkeys engaged in significantly less mutual grooming (Kruskal-Wallis H= 8.917, N=30, p=0.012). All three species exhibited grooming reciprocity. There were no significant differences in the overall use of tension-reduction behaviors. However, there were significant differences in the types of tension-reduction behaviors, with spider monkeys using embraces (H=14.306, p=0.001), bonobos using socio-sexual behaviors (H=14.269, p=0.001), and chimpanzees using kisses (H=11.50, p=0.003). Furthermore, bonobos used tension-reduction behaviors significantly more often in feeding contexts (ANOVA F=14.357, N=15, p=0.001). We suggest that each species use tension-reduction behaviors that are species-typical, but serve as functional equivalents. However, bonobos may experience increased tension in feeding contexts, which suggests differing social and ecological pressures may necessitate an increase in tension-reduction behaviors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1816/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Anthropology, Sociology, and Social Work, Eastern Kentucky University', u'Department of Psychology, Florida International University']]
[u'Microsatellite loci discovery from next-generation sequencing data and marker characterization in the epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testudinaria (Linnaeus, 1798)', ['Christine Ewers-Saucedo', 'John D Zardus', 'John P Wares'], u'2016-03-02', u'Microsatellite markers remain an important tool for ecological and evolutionary research, but are unavailable for many non-model organisms. One such organism with rare ecological and evolutionary features is the epizoic barnacle Chelonibia testudinaria (Linnaeus, 1758). Chelonibia testudinaria appears to be a host generalist, and has a unusual sexual system, androdioecy. Genetic studies on host specificity and mating behavior are impeded by the lack of fine-scale, highly variable markers. In the present study, we discovered thousands of new microsatellite loci from next-generation sequencing data, and characterized 12 loci thoroughly. We conclude that 11 of these loci will be useful markers in future ecological and evolutionary studies on C. testudinaria.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1715/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Genetics, University of Georgia', u'Ecology and Evolution, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Biology, The Citadel', u'Department of Genetics and Odum School of Ecology, University of Georgia']]
[u'Sex differences in object manipulation in wild immature chimpanzees and bonobos: Preparation for tool use?', ['Kathelijne Koops', 'Takeshi Furuichi', 'Chie Hashimoto', 'Carel P. van Schaik'], u'2016-03-02', u'Sex differences in immatures predict behavioral differences in adulthood in many mammal species. Because most studies have focused on sex differences in social interactions, little is known about possible sex differences in \u2018preparation\u2019 for adult life with regards to tool use skills. We investigated sex and age differences in object manipulation in immature apes. Chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) use a variety of tools across numerous contexts, whereas bonobos (Pan paniscus) use few tools and none in foraging. In both species, a female bias in adult tool use has been reported. We studied object manipulation in immature chimpanzees at Kalinzu (Uganda) and bonobos at Wamba (Democratic Republic of Congo). We confirmed that chimpanzees showed higher rates and more diverse types of object manipulation than bonobos. Against expectation, male chimpanzees showed higher object manipulation rates than females, whereas in bonobos no sex difference was found. However, object manipulation by male chimpanzees was play-domi nated, whereas manipulation types of female chimpanzees were more diverse. Manipulation by young immatures (<3 years old) of both species was similarly dominated by play, but only in chimpanzees did it become more diverse with age. In chimpanzees, object types became more tool-like (i.e. sticks) with age, further suggesting preparation for tool use in adulthood (i.e. ant-dipping). The male bias in object manipulation in immature chimpanzees, along with the late onset of tool-like object manipulation, indicates that not all (early) object manipulation in immatures prepares for subsistence tool use. Object play may also function in motor skill practice for male-specific behaviors like dominance displays.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1815/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Anthropological Institute and Museum, University of Z\xfcrich', u'Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University', u'Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University']]
[u'Foundations of cumulative culture in apes: improved foraging efficiency through relinquishing and combining witnessed behaviors in chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes)', ['Sarah J Davis', 'Gillian L Vale', 'Steven J Schapiro', 'Susan P Lambeth', 'Andrew Whiten'], u'2016-03-02', u'Evidence for culture in non-human species continues to grow, yet there are few candidate examples of cumulative culture outside of humans\u2019 distinctively complex achievements. Prerequisites for cumulative culture include not only the ability to build on established behaviors but also to relinquish old ones and flexibly switch to more productive or efficient alternatives. Here, we established an inefficient solution to a foraging task in five groups of captive adult chimpanzees (N=19 - 4 male, 15 female; average group size of 8 individuals) living at the Michale E. Keeling Center for Comparative Medicine and Research. Three groups were subsequently seeded with a conspecific model who demonstrated an alternative, more efficient, solution to the same task. When participants could still successfully forage with their previously established behaviors, the majority of individuals did not switch to this more efficient solution; however, when their foraging method eventually became highly inefficient relative to that of the available alternative, nine chimpanzees with socially-acquired information (four of whom were exposed to additional human demonstrations) relinquished their old behaviors in favor of the more efficient one. In contrast, only one individual in a control group that did not witness a knowledgeable model was seen to do this (One-tailed Fisher\u2019s exact test, p<.01). Individuals who switched were later able to combine behavioral components of these two techniques to produce a more efficient solution than their extensively used original extractive method (One-tailed Wilcoxon signed-rank test: Z = -2.410, N = 10, p < .01, r = -0.54). This suggests that the ability to combine independent behaviors to produce a superior compound technique, thought to be a major driving force of cultural evolution in hominin history, may have been inherited from an ancient ancestor shared with chimpanzees.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1814/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Centre for Social learning and Cognitive Evolution, School of Psychology & Neuroscience, University of St Andrews', u'Department of Veterinary Sciences, Michale E. Keeling Center for Comparative Medicine and Research, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center']]
[u'Population structure, migratory behavior and spawning habitat of East Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna revealed by a multi-annual electronic tagging program', ['Gemma Quilez-Badia', 'Andres Ospina-Alvarez', 'Susana Sainz Trapaga', 'Antonio Di Natale', 'Noureddine Abid', 'Naima A Rodriguez Lopez', 'Sergi Tudela'], u'2016-03-02', u'During 2008-2014, 101 pop-up satellite and 31 internal archival electronic tags were deployed in bluefin tuna (12 to 250 kg in weight) in the Western and Central Mediterranean and in the Atlantic coast of Morocco. Time at liberty spanned from 18 to 391 days. In the Western and Central Mediterranean, two behavioral patterns / contingents (highly migratory and resident) were observed to co-occur. Imprinting of early Atlantic migrants is hypothesized to explain the existence of the two contingents. None of the \u201cresident\u201d individuals left the Mediterranean during the whole tracking period. None of the tuna present in the Mediterranean at some point crossed over to the Eastern Mediterranean. The occurrence of potential Mediterranean spawners in North Atlantic waters beyond the 45oW was also observed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1813/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Fisheries, WWF Mediterranean Programme Office', u'N\xfacleo Milenio - Centro de Conservaci\xf3n Marina CCM, Estaci\xf3n Costera de Investigaciones Marinas ECIM, Departamento de Ecolog\xeda, Pontificia Universidad Cat\xf3lica de Chile', u'Secretariat, ICCAT', u'Centre R\xe9gional de Tanger/M \u0301diq, INRH']]
[u'A road map for a sustainable cocoa development in Togo, West Africa', ['Daniele Dendi'], u'2016-03-02', u'Cacao production is one of the most important agro-forestry practice in West Africa. In Togo, cacao production is concentrated in the hilly area in the south-west of the country, close to the political border with Ghana. In this commentary paper, I summarize some of the main issues faced by cacao production value chain in Togo, highlighting its connections with poverty alleviation and ecosystem management and conservation practices. A road map of future needs is also presented and discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1812/', ['Ecosystem Science'], [u'IDECC - Institute for Development, Ecology, Conservation and Cooperation NGO']]
[u'First applications of a targeted exome sequencing approach in fetuses with ultrasound abnormalities reveals an important fraction of cases with associated gene defects', ['Constantinos Pangalos', 'Birgitta Hagnefelt', 'Konstantinos Lilakos', 'Christopher Konialis'], u'2016-03-02', u'Background  :  Fetal malformations and other structural abnormalities are relatively frequent findings in the course of routine prenatal ultrasonographic examination. Due to their considerable genetic and clinical heterogeneity, the underlying genetic cause is often elusive and the resulting inability to provide a precise diagnosis precludes proper reproductive and fetal risk assessment. We report the development and first applications of an expanded exome sequencing-based test, coupled to a bioinformatics-driven prioritization algorithm, targeting gene disorders presenting with abnormal prenatal ultrasound findings.  Methods  : We applied the testing strategy to14 euploid fetuses, from 11 on-going pregnancies and 3 products of abortion, all with various abnormalities or malformations detected through prenatal ultrasound examination. Whole exome sequencing (WES) was followed by variant prioritization, utilizing a custom analysis pipeline (Fetalis algorithm), targeting 758 genes associated with genetic disorders which may present with abnormal fetal ultrasound findings.  Results  :A definitive or highly-likely diagnosis was made in 6 of 14 cases (43%), of which 3 were abortuses (Ellis-van Creveld syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome and Nemaline myopathy 2) and 3 involved on-going pregnancies (Citrullinemia, Noonan syndrome, PROKR2-related Kallmann syndrome). In the remaining 8 on-going pregnancy cases (57%), a ZIC1 variant of unknown clinical significance was detected in one case, while in 7 cases testing did not reveal any pathogenic variant(s). Pregnancies were followed-up to birth, resulting in one neonate harboring the PROKR2 mutation, presenting with isolated minor structural cardiac abnormalities, and in 7 apparently healthy neonates. Discussion : The expanded targeted exome sequencing-based approach described herein (Fetalis), provides strong evidence suggesting a definite and beneficial increase in our diagnostic capabilities in prenatal diagnosis of otherwise chromosomally balanced fetuses with troubling ultrasound abnormalities. Furthermore, the proposed targeted exome sequencing strategy, designed primarily as a diagnostic rather than a research discovery tool, overcomes many of the problems and limitations associated with clinical wide-scale WES testing in a prenatal setting.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1811/', ['Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Medical Genetics'], [u'Genomis Ltd', u'InterGenetics \u2013 Diagnostic Genetic Centre', u'Department of Haematology, "Laikon" General Hospital - University of Athens Medical School']]
[u'Effectiveness of phalanx skeletochronology to estimate age in living reptiles', ['Mar Comas', 'Senda Reguera', 'Francisco Javier Zamora-Camacho', 'Humbert H Salvado', 'Gregorio Moreno-Rueda'], u'2016-03-01', u'Demographic studies are fundamental in population ecology, as well as in conservation biology and wildlife management. However, few methods are available to determine the exact age of animals. Mark-recapture is usually the main method to study demography, but this approach is highly time-consuming and needs long-term monitoring. For species for which recapture is not feasible, this method is not valid. However, in vertebrates with indeterminate growth, such as fish, amphibians, and reptiles, skeletochronology is a method that allows age to be estimated from a bone. Nevertheless, studies of skeletochronology frequently involve the death of the animal to obtain the bone. In the present study, we test the reliability of phalanx skeletochronology, comparing the readings from the most commonly used bones in reptile skeletochronology (femur and humerus) with the age estimated from phalanges. Our results show phalanx skeletochronology to be a reliable method for estimating age in lizards without killing them. Cross-section readings from all bones studied presented a high correlation and repeatability, regardless of the phalanx chosen. These findings imply that, to apply skeletochronology, phalanges must be used instead of other bones that mean the death of the animal, and the killing of lizards for skeletochronology studies is no longer justified. This alternative is especially relevant for endangered species, considering that obtaining a representative sample usually requires a considerable number of individuals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1809/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ethical Issues', 'Histology'], [u'Estaci\xf3n Biol\xf3gica de Do\xf1ana (EBD), Spanish National Research Council (CSIC)', u'Departamento de Zoolog\xeda, Universidad de Granada', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Dartmouth College', u'Universitat de Barcelona, Laboratory of Protistology, Departament de Biologia Animal, Facultat de Biologia']]
[u'Sperm removal during copulation confirmed in the oldest extant damselfly, Hemiphlebia mirabilis', ['Adolfo Cordero-Rivera'], u'2016-03-01', u'Postcopulatory sexual selection may favour mechanisms to reduce sperm competition, like physical sperm removal by males. To investigate the origin of sperm removal, I studied the reproductive behaviour and mechanisms of sperm competition in the only living member of the oldest damselfly family, Hemiphlebia mirabilis, one species that was considered extinct in the 1980s. This species displays scramble competition behaviour, whose males search for females with short flights and both sexes exhibit a conspicuous \u201cabdominal flicking\u201d. This behaviour is used by males during an elaborate precopulatory courtship, unique among the Odonata. Females use a similar display to reject male attempts to form tandem, but eventually signal receptivity by a particular body position. Males immobilise females during courtship using their legs, which, contrarily to other damselflies, never autotomize. Copulation is short (range 4.1-18.7 min), and has two stages. In the first stage, males remove part of the stored sperm, and inseminate during the second stage, at the end of mating. The examination of genitalia indicates that males have two horns covered by back-oriented spines, which match the size and form of female genitalia. The volume of sperm in females after copulation was 2.8 times larger than the volume stored in females whose copulation was interrupted at the end of stage I, indicative of a significant sperm removal. These results point out that sperm removal is an old character in the evolution of odonates, probably dating back to the Permian.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1810/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'ECOEVO Lab, Departamento de Ecolox\xeda e Biolox\xeda Animal, Universidade de Vigo']]
[u'Behaviour and beliefs related to male aggression: Evidence of intrasexual selection in humans?', ['Tara-Lyn Camilleri', 'Geoff Kushnick'], u'2016-03-01', u'Sexual selection favours traits that increase mating and, thus, reproductive success. Some scholars have suggested that intrasexual selection driven by contest competition has shaped human male aggression. If this is the case, one testable hypothesis is that beliefs and behaviour related to male aggression should be more prevalent in societies where the intensity and strength of sexual selection is higher, as measured by factors such as the presence and scope of polygyny, the number of same-sex competitors relative to potential mates, and male contribution to subsistence. Using data from a global sample of 78 societies, we found strong support for this hypothesis. We discuss potential alternative explanations for the relationships, ruling out some using multivariate methods to control for confounding variables such as political complexity, warfare and geographic clustering.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1802/', ['Anthropology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'School of Archaeology and Anthropology, The Australian National University']]
[u'Examination of antimicrobial activity of selected non-antibiotic products', ['Hanna Kruszewska', 'Tomasz Zareba', 'Agnieszka Mrowka', 'Stefan S Tyski'], u'2016-03-01', u'A variety of pharmaceutical preparations, which are applied in the management of non-infectious diseases, have shown in vitro some antimicrobial activity. These drugs are called \u201cnon-antibiotics\u201d. So far, a lot of attention has been focused on phenothiazines, thioxanthenes and other agents with affinities to cellular transport systems or agents showing other inhibition mechanism. Several authors confirmed that some non-antibiotics are \u201chelper compounds\u201d, which enhance the in vitro activity of certain antibiotics against specific bacteria (ex. omeprazole and nizatidine enhance the effect of metronidazole on Helicobacter pylori). The aim of this study was to detect and characterise the antimicrobial activity of non-antibiotic drugs, selected from the pharmaceutical products analysed during the state control performed in National Medicines Institute in Warsaw. Over 100 pharmaceutical preparations were randomly chosen from different groups of drugs. The surveillance study was performed on standard ATCC microbial strains used for drug control: Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans and Aspergillus brasiliensis. It was shown that the drugs listed below inhibited growth of at least one of the examined strains: Cyclaid 100 mg cap. (ciclosporine), Heminevrin 300 mg cap. (clomethiazole edisylate), Hydroxycarbamid Teva 500 mg caps. (hydroxycarbamide), Ibandronat Apotex 150 mg tab., Ossica 150 mg tab. (ibandronic acid), Lazivir 150 mg + 300 mg tab. (lamivudyne, zydovudine), No-Spa Max 80 mg tab. (drotaverine HCl) and Rupafin 10 mg tab. (rupatadine). The MIC values of active substances of above drugs were evaluated. The broad spectrum of activity was found in case of clomethiazole which inhibited growth of all tested strains ( MIC: 1.6 \u2013 3.2 mg/ml ). All tested bacterial strains were inhibited by hydroxycarbamide (MIC: 0.8 - 1.6 mg/ml). The high activity against Gram-positive strains was found for drotaverine and rupatadine (MIC: 0.4 mg/ml). Mould strain A. brasiliensis was inhibited by ibandronic acid (MIC 3.2 mg/ml), clomethiazole (MIC 1.6 mg/ml) and cyclosporine (MIC 0.8 mg/ml). Moreover ibandronic acid was active against P. aeruginosa in relatively low concentration (MIC: 0.2 mg/ml). In case of antiviral tablets Lazivir (two active substance: lamivudine and zidovudine) only zidovudine inhibited growth of E. coli in very low concentration 0.00125 mg/ml whereas lamivudine to concentration 1.6 mg/ml did not show any inhibition towards tested strains. The antimicrobial activity of the drugs emphasize a necessity of neutralization of their activity during microbial purity assays of pharmaceutical products.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1807/', ['Microbiology'], [u'Department of Antibiotics and Microbiology, National Medicines Institute', u'Department of Pharmaceutical Microbiology, Medical University of Warsaw']]
[u'Evidence of model based transmission bias in captive chimpanzees: initial tool choice matches proficient groupmate', ['Lara A Wood', 'Rachel L Kendal', 'Lydia M Hopper', 'Susan P Lambeth', 'Steven J Schapiro', 'Emma G Flynn'], u'2016-03-01', u'Social learning theories predict biased transmission dictating what and whom is copied. We presented a novel tool-use task to six groups of captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) to investigate a model proficiency bias. The study included six groups totalling 54 chimpanzees (24 males) housed in six social groups at the KCCMR, University of Texas, U.S.A. Subjects were aged 12- to 43-years-old (M = 24.5 years, SD = 7). In each of four groups (N = 33, Males = 18), two models were trained to use one of two visually and functionally different \u2018hook\u2019 and \u2018spoon\u2019 tools to obtain baskets containing food that were otherwise out-of-reach. Once trained, the models demonstrated their tool-use in the presence of the group. The two models differed in their novel-task-solving proficiency as ascertained by prior interactions with novel tasks (also observed by group members) and caregiver ratings of each chimpanzee\u2019s general proficiency. Two groups of \u2018control\u2019 chimpanzees (N = 21) had no prior information regarding the task and saw no conspecific demonstrations. Within the experimental groups, significantly more chimpanzees touched the tool used by the \u2018high proficiency\u2019 model than the one used by the \u2018low proficiency\u2019 model (p < 0.001), demonstrating some degree of model-based social learning bias. The tool used in observing chimpanzees\u2019 first attempts and first successes, however, did not differ as a function of which model used the tool. This was likely because the task could be easily learned asocially. We propose that the chimpanzees\u2019 tool-use behaviour was guided by biased stimulus enhancement alongside asocial learning. As with humans, chimpanzees demonstrate an ability to discern the most proficient model but also show the flexibility to asocially acquire multiple successful methods. Thus, chimpanzees and humans both demonstrate adaptive social learning strategies dictating when and whom they copy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1808/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Psychology, Durham University', u'Division of Psychology, University of Abertay', u'Centre for Coevolution of Biology & Culture, Department of Anthropology, Durham University', u'Lester E Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of Apes, Lincoln Park Zoo', u'Michale E Keeling Center for Comparative Medicine and Research, University of Texas', u'School of Education, Durham University']]
[u'Fighting back: Population recovery and expansion of the range size of the Mitumba chimpanzee community in Gombe National Park, Tanzania', ['Deus Mjungu', 'Michael L Wilson', 'Steffen Foerster', 'Anne E Pusey'], u'2016-03-01', u'Chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) compete aggressively for territory with their neighbors. Results from playback experiments and observations of naturally occurring intergroup interactions indicate that success in territorial competition depends mainly on the number of adult males on each side. Communities with more males are therefore expected to win more intergroup contests and, as a result, expand their range. Demography is thus expected to play a decisive role in intergroup competition. Testing this hypothesis, however, has proven difficult. Most studies have focused on a single community, so that the actual number of males is known for only one side. Additionally, because chimpanzees reproduce and grow slowly, many years of data are needed to test the effects of demographic change on territorial behavior. Here we report on 20 years of data from two habituated neighboring communities. We found that numerical advantage plays an important role in territorial competition. During the first part of the study period, the Mitumba community suffered a demographic decline. As a result, males from the larger Kasekela community won the majority of intergroup interactions and expanded their range deep into areas previously used by Mitumba. However, during the last five years, the Mitumba community increased in size, and subsequently recovered a substantial portion of their range from the Kasekela chimpanzees. This study highlights the importance of long-term studies for understanding territorial dynamics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1806/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology'], [u'Gombe Stream Research Center, the Jane Goodall Institute', u'Department of Ecology, Evolution and Behavior, University of Minnesota', u'Department of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University']]
[u'Strategic decision-making by chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes), bonobos (Pan paniscus) and children in a Snowdrift-Game task', ['Alejandro Sanchez-Amaro', 'Shona Duguid', 'Josep Call', 'Michael Tomasello'], u'2016-03-01', u'Chimpanzees must be able to coordinate with others even when conflicts of interest are present. The \u201cSnowdrift-Game\u201d provides a model to understand how organisms coordinate and make decisions under conflict situations. By investigating whether and how chimpanzees solve this dilemma we can gain insight into the mechanisms of cooperation. Moreover, by comparing chimpanzees with their closest relatives, bonobos and humans, we can understand the evolutionary context of decision making in this situation. We presented pairs of captive chimpanzees (N=10; Mage= 20.5 years) and bonobos (N=6, Mage=13.7 years) housed at the Leipzig Zoo in Germany as well as 20 children dyads from the same city, with an adapted version of the Snowdrift games. In our task, subjects were faced with an unequal reward distribution. In the critical condition the higher reward was acquired by letting a partner act, with the risk that if neither partner acted the rewards would be lost after a period of thirty seconds. Both chimpanzees and children were highly successful at coordinating their actions to solve the dilemma (bonobo data is currently under collection). They almost never lost the rewards because at least one partner was willing to pay the cost of getting the decreased reward, to avoid coordination failure (no reward). Both species behaved strategically as they waited longer for their partner to act when this would lead to a higher reward. However, evidence from their resource distributions, their action latencies and their communicative acts suggests that children behaved more strategic than chimpanzees. Our results demonstrate that both species can successfully coordinate their actions in conflict situations although they differ in the way they achieve coordination.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1805/', ['Animal Behavior'], [u'Developmental and Comparative Psychology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology', u'School of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of St. Andrews', u'Psychology and Neuroscience, Duke University']]
[u'Comparative proteomics reveals signature metabolisms of exponentially growing and stationary phase marine bacteria', ['Saraldevi Muthusamy', 'Daniel Lundin', 'Rui MM Branca', 'Federico Baltar', 'Jose M Gonzalez', 'Janne Lehtio', 'Jarone Pinhassi'], u'2016-03-01', u'Exponentially growing bacteria are rarely found in nature. Instead, bacteria spend most of their lifetime in a slow- or non-proliferating state, a state that is occasionally interrupted by an increase in accessible nutrients. To successfully compete for pulses of nutrients, copiotrophic marine bacteria have adaptations that allow them to change their metabolism to support exponential growth in response to nutrients and to return to stationary phase when nutrients return to normal scarcity. The molecular details of these adaptations can be observed through proteome profiles, i.e. relative abundances of proteins in cells, and how they change between different conditions. We developed proteome profiles during exponential and stationary phase conditions for three model organisms representing major marine bacterioplankton lineages. 22500-3000 proteins per isolate were detected, representing large proportions of each proteome (67-87%). A shift from protein synthesis and other processes typically associated with active growth, to proteins essential for nutrient scavenging, was observed during transition into stationary phase. The three isolates differed in magnitude of their responses and in how enzymes of different metabolisms responded. Some of the differences can be seen as differences in implementation of a shared strategy, such as an increase in enzymes involved in carbon storage, while other differences are best described as differences in strategy. We thus observed the proteome reflection of \u201csignature metabolisms\u201d in the three isolates \u2013 distinct metabolic adaptations to environmental circumstances. These findings have direct implications for the interpretation of proteomic and genetic data from microbes in natural environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1804/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Centre for Ecology and Evolution in Microbial model Systems \u2013 EEMiS, Linnaeus University', u'Clinical Proteomics Mass Spectrometry, Department of Oncology-Pathology, Science for Life Laboratory and Karolinska Institute', u'Department of Marine Science, University of Otago', u'Departamento de Microbiolog\xeda, Universidad de La Laguna (ULL)']]
[u'Electronic tagging data and habitat envelope modeling used to monitor spatial persistency and possible relocation of spawning grounds for the bluefin tuna in the East Atlantic and the Mediterranean Sea', ['Andres Ospina-Alvarez', 'Susana Sainz Trapaga', 'Sergi Tudela', 'Antonio Di Natale', 'Gemma Quilez-Badia'], u'2016-03-01', u'A spawning habitat envelope has been created for bluefin tuna in its traditional spawning ground in the Mediterranean Sea by combining environmental variables and species behavior. We used logistic regressions through a generalized linear model (GLM) approach to determine whether reproduction was affected by spawning habitat characteristics and individual behavior. Results from the implementation of the model predicted a high probability of occurrence of reproductive events associated with 17 tagged tuna. Some of them matched the already well known spawning grounds in the Mediterranean Sea (the area around the Balearic Islands, the Tyrrhenian Sea and the Gulf of Sirte). The model also proposed some other areas seldom or not at all mentioned in the bibliography in both, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic Ocean, such as the Alboran Sea, the Catalan Sea, the Gulf of Lions and the Bay of Biscay. This model provides an objective methodology to predict and adapt spawning areas, and to identify other potential but unknown, or even new, spawning areas and periods for the species. Moreover, the application of the present methodology could help the implementation of an adaptive management approach for Atlantic bluefin tuna by predicting areas suitable for spawning and identifying changes in spawning areas and season in the currently highly changing ocean and climate conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1803/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'N\xfacleo Milenio - Centro de Conservaci\xf3n Marina CCM, Estaci\xf3n Costera de Investigaciones Marinas ECIM, Departamento de Ecolog\xeda, Pontificia Universidad Cat\xf3lica de Chile', u'Independent Researcher', u'Direcci\xf3 General de Pesca i Afers Mar\xedtims, Generalitat de Catalunya', u'Secretariat, ICCAT', u'Fisheries, WWF Mediterranean Programme Office']]
[u"Viruses' origin could relate to the act of prey among primitive life forms during the old ages", ['Eslam Abbas'], u'2016-03-01', u'Viruses could have originated from the frantic competition to survive among the primitive life forms of the old ages. This is the result of this new hypothesis which proposes that viruses could have originated as remnants of primitive microorganisms disintegration. The destruction can have resulted from an attack of other cells for the purpose of nutrition or imposing control on the nutritional sources. This view is conclusive and can replace old hypotheses and additionally, it is flexible and explains virus diversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1801/', ['Virology'], [u'Department of Cardiology, Om El Masreyin Hospital']]
[u'Transcription factor organic cation transporter 1 (OCT-1) affects the expression of porcine Klotho (KL) gene', ['Yan Li', 'Lei Wang', 'Jiawei Zhou', 'Fenge Li'], u'2016-03-01', u'Klotho (KL), originally discovered as an aging suppressor, was a membrane protein that shared sequence similarity with the \u03b2-glucosidase enzymes. Recent reports showed Klotho might have a role in adipocyte maturation and systemic glucose metabolism. However, little is known about the transcription factors involved in regulating the expression of porcine KL gene. Deletion fragment analysis identified KL-D2 (-418 bp to -3 bp) as the porcine KL core promoter. MARC0022311 in KL intron 1 appeared a polymorphism (A or G) in Landrace \xd7 DIV pigs, and relative luciferase activity of pGL3-D2-G was significantly higher than pGL3-D2-A. This was possibly the result of a change in KL binding ability with transcription factor organic cation transporter 1 (OCT-1), which was confirmed using electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA) and chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP). Moreover, OCT-1 regulated endogenous KL expression by RNA interference. Our study indicates SNP MARC0022311 affects porcine KL expression by regulating its promoter activity via OCT-1.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1800/', ['Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Zoology'], [u'Key Laboratory of Pig Genetics and Breeding of Ministry of Agriculture & Key Laboratory of Agricultural Animal Genetics, Breeding and Reproduction of Ministry of Education, Huazhong Agricultural University']]
[u'Monitoring approaches for supporting offshore aquaculture management and EU Directives at Sagres, Portugal', ['Bruno Dias Duarte Fragoso', 'John David Icely', 'Nancy Odour', 'Gerald Moore', 'Joao Magalhaes Neto', 'Sergei Danchenko', 'Alice Newton'], u'2016-02-29', u'The increasing development of aquaculture activity in the coast of Sagres, area included in the Parque Natural do Sudoeste Alentejano e Costa Vicentina (PNSACV) SW Portugal, has to comply with regional and national regulations. The development also has to comply with EU directives including: Quality of Shellfish Waters Directive 2006/113/EC (QSWD); Water Framework Directive 2000/60/EC (WFD); Marine Strategy Framework Directive 2008/56/EC (MSFD); Maritime Spatial Planning 2014/89/EU, (MSP). During 2014/2015, a monitoring routine was established to assess the potential impact of aquaculture in the region, as required by the Ag\xeancia Portuguesa do Ambiente (APA). This involved a weekly sampling routine of water parameters at surface and bottom, including temperature (SST), salinity (Sal), Secchi depth, chlorophyll (Chl), suspended particulate matter (SPM), pH, oxygen (O2) and nutrients. Additional water samples were collected for phytoplankton counts to provide information on the species contributing to Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs). Associated with the routine sampling, innovative approaches to understanding the impact of aquaculture have been undertaken including: use of remote sensing products to provide spatial and temporal data for SST, Sal, Chl, and SPM validated with in situ radiometric data (Satlantic and WISP-3); genomics for HABs and flow cytometry for nanoplankton; a survey of impact on the benthos; determination of nutrient condition in the region through nutrient stoichiometry; automisation of data collection with an oceanographic buoy. Preliminary data from both routine and innovative studies will be presented in relation to aquaculture management and to the requirements of the WFD and the MSFD.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1799/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Facultad de Ciencias del Mar y Ambientales, University of C\xe1diz, Campus de Puerto Real, Pol\xedgono San Pedro s/n, Puerto Real, 11519, University of C\xe1diz', u'Apartado 21, 8650-999, Sagremarisco - Viveiros de Marisco Lda', u'Crofters.Middle Dimson,Gunnislake PL18 9NQ, Bio-Optika', u'Fac. Sci and Technology University of Coimbra Largo Marqu\xeas de Pombal 3004-517, MARE \u2013 Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre', u'Nilu-Impec\xa0PO Box 100, 2027 Kjeller']]
[u'Watch out where you sleep: Nocturnal sleeping behaviour of Bay Island lizards', ['Nitya Prakash Mohanty', 'Surendran Harikrishnan', 'Karthikeyan Vasudevan'], u'2016-02-29', u'Sleeping exposes lizards to predation. Therefore, sleeping strategies must be directed towards avoiding predation and might vary among syntopic species. We studied sleeping site characteristics of two syntopic, congeneric lizards - the Bay Island forest lizard, Coryphophylax subcristatus and the short-tailed Bay Island lizard, C. brevicaudus and evaluated inter-specific differences. We measured structural, microclimatic and potential predator avoidance at the sleeping perches of 386 C. subcristatus and 185 C. brevicaudus. Contrary to our expectation, we found similar perch use in both species. The lizards appeared to use narrow girth perch plants and accessed perches by moving both vertically and horizontally. Most lizards slept on leaves, with their heads directed towards the potential path of a predator approaching from the plant base. There was no inter-specific competition in the choices of sleeping perches. These choices indicate an anti-predator strategy involving both tactile and visual cues. This study provides insight into a rarely studied behaviour in reptiles and its adaptive significance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1798/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Andaman & Nicobar Environmental Team', u'CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Laboratory for Conservation of Endangered Species']]
[u'Geography and location are the primary drivers of office microbiome composition', ['John H Chase', 'Jennifer Fouquier', 'Mahnaz Zare', 'Derek L Sonderegger', 'Rob Knight', 'Scott Kelley', 'Jeffrey A Siegel', 'J Gregory Caporaso'], u'2016-02-29', u'North Americans spend the majority of their time indoors where they are exposed to the microbiome of the built environment (BE) they inhabit. Despite the ubiquity of microbes in BEs, and their potential impacts on health and building materials, basic questions about the microbiology of these environments remain unanswered. We present a study on the impacts of geography, material type, human interaction, location in a room, seasonal variation, and indoor and microenvironmental parameters on bacterial communities in offices. Our data elucidates several important features of microbial communities in BEs. First, under normal office environmental conditions, bacterial communities do not differ based on surface material (e.g., ceiling tile or carpet), but do differ based on the location in a room (e.g., ceiling or floor), two features which are often conflated, but which we are able to separate here. We suspect that previous work showing differences in bacterial composition with surface material were likely detecting differences based on different usage patterns. Next, we find that offices have city-specific bacterial communities, such that we can accurately predict which city an office microbiome sample is derived from, but office-specific bacterial communities are less apparent. This differs from previous work which has suggested office-specific compositions of bacterial communities. We again suspect that the difference from prior work arises from different usage patterns. As has been previously shown, we observe that human skin contributes heavily to the composition of BE surfaces.\nOur study highlights several points that should impact the design of future studies of the microbiology of the BEs. First, projects tracking changes to BE bacterial communities should focus sampling effort on surveying different locations in offices and in different cities, but not necessarily different materials or different offices in the same city. Next, disturbance due to repeat sampling, though detectable, is small compared to other variables, opening up a range of longitudinal study designs in the built environment. Next, studies requiring more samples than can be sequenced on a single sequencing run (which is increasingly common) must control for run effects by including some of the same samples on all sequencing runs as technical replicates. Finally, detailed tracking of indoor and material environment covariates is likely not essential for BE microbiome studies, as the normal range of indoor environmental conditions is likely not large enough to impact bacterial communities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1797/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University', u'Graduate Program in Bioinformatics and Medical Informatics, San Diego State University', u'Department of Civil Engineering, University of Toronto', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego', u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University']]
[u'Embodiment as preparation: Pupillary responses to words that convey a sense of brightness or darkness', ['Sebastiaan Mathot', 'Jonathan Grainger', 'Kristof Strijkers'], u'2016-02-29', u"A strongly embodied view of language holds that, to understand a word, you must simulate associated sensory input (e.g. simulate perception of brightness to understand 'lamp'), and prepare associated actions (e.g. prepare finger movements to understand 'typing'). To test this, we measured pupillary responses to single words that conveyed a sense of brightness (e.g. 'day') or darkness (e.g. 'night'), or were luminance-neutral (e.g. 'house'). Crucially, we found that the pupil was largest for darkness-conveying words, intermediate for neutral words, and smallest for brightness-conveying words; however, this semantic pupillary response peaked long after participants had already understood and responded to the words. These findings suggest that word comprehension activates sensory representations, and even triggers physiological (pupillary) responses, but that this occurs too late to be a necessary part of the comprehension process itself. Instead, we suggest that pupillary responses to darkness- and brightness-conveying words--and perhaps embodied language in general--may reflect preparation for the immediate future: When you read the word 'lamp', you automatically prepare to look at a lamp, and prepare to read more brightness-related words; this may cause your pupils to constrict in anticipation.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1795/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive, UMR 7290, Aix-Marseille University / CNRS', u'Aix-Marseille University / CNRS, Laboratoire Parole et Langage, UMR 7309']]
[u'Bacteria associated to human saliva are major microbial components of Ecuadorian indigenous beers (chicha)', ['Ana L. Freire', 'Sonia Zapata', 'Juan Mosquera', 'Maria Lorena Mejia', 'Gabriel Trueba'], u'2016-02-28', u'Indigenous beers (chicha) are part of the indigenous culture in Ecuador. The fermentation process of these beers relay probably on microorganisms from: fermenting substrates, environment and human microbiota. We analyzed the microbiota of artisanal beers (including a type of beer produced after chewing boiled cassava) using bacterial culture and 16S-based tag-encoded FLX amplicon pyrosequencing (bTEFAP). Surprisingly, we found that Streptococcus salivarius and Streptococcus mutans (part of the human oral microbiota) where among the most abundant bacteria in chewed cassava and in non-chewed cassava beers. We also demonstrated that S. salivarius and S. mutans (isolated from these beers) could proliferate in cassava mush. Lactobacillus sp. was predominantly present in most types of Ecuadorian chicha.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1520/', ['Anthropology', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Instituto de Microbiologia, Universidad San Francisco de Quito']]
[u'Assigning Hippocampus guttulatus recruits to the populations of origin using microsatellites: results from a field study in the Ria Formosa (south Portugal)', ['Jose P Andrade', 'Celine Madeira', 'Miguel Correia', 'Jorge Palma'], u'2016-02-27', u'The deployment of Artificial Holdfast Units (AHU) has been demonstrated as an effective tool for creating holdfast and sheltering conditions for Hippocampus guttulatus in the Ria Formosa (South Portugal). Preliminary results obtained with a pilot-scale AHU showed a high settlement rate, with recorded densities of up to 13.1 individuals.m-2. With the present study, we aim to understand weather the AHU\u2019s contributed to attract new H. guttulatus recruits or concentrate those previously existing in these areas. Prior to the deployment of the AHU\u2019s in a total of four focal sites, a sample of the skin filaments was collected from each H. guttulatus (n= 70) sighted in those locations. The same sampling protocol was later carried out on the recruits (n=14) sighted in one pilot-scale AHU since its deployment. Upon DNA extraction the variation of 13 highly polymorphic microsatellite loci isolated for H. guttulatus (or obtained by cross-amplification in H. hippocampus) has been analyzed. PCR reactions with labeled primers were performed using standard procedures and amplified products were run on an ABI PRISM 3130 XL Genetic Analyser\xa9. Based on the genetic data, ONCOR software package was used to estimate the population of origin of recruits. Preliminary results indicate that more than 90% of the recruits at the AHU were assigned to the sites located up to 500 meter apart. No assignment has been demonstrated for the other sampled locations, situated further away from the AHU.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1794/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'CCMAR, Fisheries Biology and Hydroecology, Universidade do Algarve']]
[u'The effects of dietary changes on chimpanzee behavior', ['Amy Fultz', 'Raven Jackson-Jewett', 'Kathleen Taylor', 'Connie Philipp', 'Akie Yanagi', 'Erin Loeser', 'Leilani Case'], u'2016-02-27', u'Captive chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) often suffer from obesity-related health issues including arthritis, diabetes, and heart disease. It is becoming increasingly common to house captive chimpanzees in large social groups, which may increase aggression due to the competition over limited food resources. In order to improve the health of sanctuary chimpanzees at Chimp Haven, Inc, USA. we recently made some modifications to the chimpanzee\u2019s diet. Diet formulations were created by our veterinarian using recommendations from Association of Zoos and Aquariums Nutrition Advisory Groups and National Research Council guidelines on daily nonhuman primate caloric needs. The current study examined behavioral changes in the chimpanzees when diet modifications included a reduction in the overall amount of produce given. As dietary changes were being implemented, animal care staff voiced concerns over the possibility of increased competition, abnormal behavior and aggression with the reduction in the amount of produce provided. We observed six groups of chimpanzees (N = 85; M = 34 F = 51, age: range 3-55, mean = 27.8) when produce was provided in the morning and afternoon for seven weeks before and three weeks after the dietary changes were made. We completed two 30 minute scans with six minute intervals per week on each group for a total of 820 scans. Groups ranged in size from 11-23 members (mean = 14.33). Although we found no significant changes in aggressive behavior after the dietary changes (t = .007, p = .99), there was a non-significant tendency towards an increase in abnormal behavior (t = 2.30, p = .06).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1793/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Nutrition'], [u'Director of Behavior, Research & Education, Chimp Haven, Inc.', u'Attending Veterinarian, Chimp Haven, Inc.', u'Director of Animal Care, Chimp Haven, Inc.', u'Animal Care Supervisor, Chimp Haven, Inc.', u'Behavior & Research, Chimp Haven, Inc.']]
[u'Chimp&See;: an online citizen science platform for large-scale, remote video camera trap annotation of chimpanzee behaviour, demography and individual identification', ['Mimi Arandjelovic', 'Colleen R Stephens', 'Maureen S McCarthy', 'Paula Dieguez', 'Ammie K Kalan', 'Nuria Maldonado', 'Christophe Boesch', 'Hjalmar S Kuehl'], u'2016-02-27', u'The Pan African Programme: The cultured chimpanzee (PanAf) is a large-scale research project across the chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes) range which aims to better understand and model the socioecological and demographic drivers of chimpanzee diversity. As part of the PanAf, over 350,000 1-minute camera trap videos have been recorded. To annotate this large data set and ascertain individual chimpanzee identifications from 39 different temporary and collaborative chimpanzee research sites, we developed the web-based citizen science platform Chimp&See (www.chimpandsee.org) in collaboration with the Zooniverse. Chimp&See allows members of the general public to view the PanAf videos online and annotate which species are present and the behaviours they exhibit in each video. These citizen scientists also watch and discuss videos to determine unique chimpanzee individuals and match them from different video clips. Each video is viewed by up to 15 unique users, allowing us to obtain a confidence score based on the number of consensus matches for each identification. In this poster, we compare the accuracy and efficiency achieved by the general public on this platform to automated facial detection software and expert scientific annotators. We also evaluate whether citizen science and video camera trapping is a way forward for assessing chimpanzee age/sex structure, density and community size in a cost and time effective manner. Finally, we discuss the balance between maintaining user engagement and obtaining detailed and accurate scientific data from citizen scientists.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1792/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Primatology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology']]
[u'Communication styles in bonobos and chimpanzees: Same same but different?', ['Marlen Frohlich', 'Paul H Kuchenbuch', 'Gudrun Muller', 'Barbara Fruth', 'Takeshi Furuichi', 'Roman M Wittig', 'Simone Pika'], u'2016-02-27', u'Comparative studies in relation to language origins have mainly focused on our closest living relatives, bonobos (Pan paniscus) and chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). Direct comparisons however are still lacking and/or concerned individuals living in captive environments only. Here, we carried out a systematic, quantitative comparison of communicative abilities of bonobos and chimpanzees living in four different communities in the wild with a special focus on within- and between-species variability. The analyses focused on communicative exchanges between mother-infant dyads to initiate joint travel. The communicative behavior of twelve bonobo (LuiKotale, Wamba; DRC) and thirteen chimpanzee mother-infant dyads (Ta\xef South, C\xf4te d\u2019Ivoire; Kanyawara, Uganda) was filmed during a total of 1033 (bonobos) and 1189 (chimpanzees) hours of observation. We analyzed \u2018signal-response\u2019 structures (e.g. response waiting, gestural sequences, temporal relationships) in 316 bonobo and 415 chimpanzee carry initiations, while taking into account dyadic role, infant age and site. Differences in behavior could not be attributed to within-species variability. Bonobos solicited carries more frequently from shorter distances and via coordinated responses. Chimpanzees used a higher frequency of response waiting and sequences, showing overall more persistence. Our findings suggest that interactional intelligence paved the way to language with communication styles being influenced by social matrices.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1791/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Zoology'], [u'Humboldt Research Group, Max Planck Institute for Ornithology', u'Division of Neurobiology, Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich', u'Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University', u'Department of Primatology, Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthropology']]
[u'pyAffy: An efficient Python/Cython implementation of the RMA method for processing raw data from Affymetrix expression microarrays', ['Florian Wagner'], u'2016-02-27', u'Robust multi-array average (RMA) is a highly successful method for processing raw data from Affymetrix expression microarrays. However, most of the work on microarray data processing predates the widespread use of Python in scientific computing. Here, I describe pyAffy, an efficient implementation of the RMA method in Python/Cython. Using data from the MAQC project, I show that this implementation produces virtually identical results compared to the RMA reference implementation in the affy R package, while running more than five times faster and consuming significantly less memory. I also show how individual steps of the RMA method affect the final expression estimates. The source code for pyAffy is available from PyPI and GitHub (https://github.com/flo-compbio/pyaffy) under an OSI-approved license. I intend to periodically revise this article to ensure that it accurately reflects the functionalities available in the pyAffy Python package.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1790/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Graduate Program in Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, Duke University', u'Center for Genomic and Computational Biology, Duke University']]
[u'Invasion of the tropical earthworm Pontoscolex corethrurus (Rhinodrilidae, Oligochaeta) in temperate grasslands', ['Diana Ortiz-Gamino', 'Paulino Perez-Rodriguez', 'Angel I. Ortiz-Ceballos'], u'2016-02-27', u'The tropical earthworm Pontoscolex corethrurus presents a broad distribution (56 countries from four continents) with climates that resemble the one in its native area of distribution. In invasive earthworms, it is generally assumed that temperature appears to limit the success of tropical exotic species in temperate climates. With the global climate change, the edge of the distribution range of this species could advance towards higher elevations (with lower temperatures) where no tropical species currently occur. The aim of this study was to evaluate the soil and climatic variables that could be closely associated with the distribution of P. corethrurus in four sites along an altitudinal gradient in central Veracruz, Mexico. We tested the hypothesis that the global migration of P. corethrurus appears to be limited only by temperature. Five sampling points (monoliths) were established at each of four sites along an altitudinal gradient: Laguna Verde (LV), Ingenio La Concepci\xf3n (IC), Naolinco (NA) and Acatl\xe1n (AC) at 20, 982, 1542 y 1751 masl, respectively. Our results showed that the climate along the altitudinal gradient ranged from tropical to temperate. Ten earthworm species were found along the gradient, belonging to three families (Rhinodrilidae, Megascolecide and Lumbricidae). Soil properties are associated with the abundance of the earthworm community along the altitudinal gradient. P. corethrurus was recorded at three sites (LV, IC and NA) along the altitudinal gradient. Our results reveal that the premise that low temperature limits the distribution of P. corethrurus in not supported; that is, this species may survive and reproduce at the site NA with an average annual temperature of 17 \xbaC. These results suggested that P. corethrurus might be colonizing temperate environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1789/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Instituto de Biotecnolog\xeda y Ecolog\xeda Aplicada, Universidad Veracruzana', u'Programa de Estad\xedstica, Colegio de Postgraduados']]
[u'Has human culture "shaped" the shape bias: Comparisons with other apes', ['Jennifer M Vonk'], u'2016-02-27', u'Children show a bias toward information about shape when categorizing unfamiliar objects or learning new labels for objects. We presented two adult zoo-housed chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes) and 3- to 5-year old children with a relational matching task in which samples and comparison stimuli matched on either shape or color. Whereas children at all ages performed above chance on the task, chimpanzees performed at close to chance levels overall. However, closer examination of their performance revealed that, whereas children performed better on shape (86%) versus color trials (78.5%), chimpanzees showed the opposite pattern, performing at chance on shape trials (49%) and above chance on color trials (72%). I propose that the shape bias arises because of cultural effects, whereas color may be a more salient natural cue that differentiates, for instance, between ripe and non-ripe fruit. Interestingly, earlier work with orangutans and one gorilla, however, showed that the apes initially performed best on shape trials, but learned quickly to match more effectively by color. In a second order relational task, preferences were less clear. Further work is needed to determine the evolutionary history of the shape bias in human children.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1788/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Psychology, Oakland University']]
[u'A century of ecosystem change: human and seabird impacts on plant species extirpation and invasion on islands', ['Thomas K Lameris', 'Joseph R Bennett', 'Louise K Blight', 'Marissa Giesen', 'Michael H Janssen', 'Joop JHJ Schaminee', 'Peter Arcese'], u'2016-02-27', u'We used 116-years of floral and faunal records from Mandarte Island, British Columbia, Canada, to estimate the indirect effects of humans on plant communities via their effects on the population size of a surface-nesting, colonial seabird, the Glaucous-winged gull (Larus glaucescens). Comparing current to historical records revealed 18 extirpations of native plant species (32% of species historically present), 31 exotic species introductions, and one case of exotic introduction followed by extirpation. Contemporary surveys indicated that native species cover declined dramatically from 1986 to 2006, coincident with the extirpation of \u2018old-growth\u2019 conifers. Because vegetation change co-occurred with an increasing gull population locally and regionally, we also tested predictions from the hypothesis that the presence and activities of seabirds help to explain those changes. Specifically, we predicted we would observe high nutrient loading and exotic plant species richness and cover on nearby islands with versus without gull colonies as a consequence of competitive dominance in species adapted to high soil nitrogen and trampling. As predicted, we found that native plant species cover and richness were lower, and exotic species cover and richness higher, on islands with versus without gull colonies. In addition, we found that soil carbon and nitrogen on islands with nesting gulls were positively related to soil depth and exotic species richness and cover across plots and islands. Our results suggest that gulls have the potential to drive rapid change in insular plant communities by increasing nutrients and disturbing vegetation. Because human activities have contributed to long-term change in gull populations, our results further suggest compelling, indirect links between human management decisions and plant community composition on islands of the Georgia Basin.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1787/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Forest and Conservation Sciences, University of British Columbia', u'Nature Conservation and Plant Ecology Group, Wageningen University', u'Department of Animal Ecology, Netherlands Institute of Ecology', u'Institute of Environmental Science and Department of Biology, Carleton University', u'Procellaria Research & Consulting', u'Wildlife Research Division, Environment and Climate Change Canada', u'Plant Ecology and Nature Conservation Group, Wageningen University']]
[u'The repeatability of variability: exploring intra- and inter-individual variation in seasonality', ['Kevin D Matson', 'Maaike A Versteegh', 'B Irene Tieleman'], u'2016-02-27', u'Animals exhibit seasonal cycles in a variety of physiological and behavioral traits. Studies of these cycles can potentially offer new insights into the evolution of individual differences. For natural selection to act, a trait must be both distinctive within individuals and variable among individuals. The extent to which the amplitude and phase of seasonal cycles fulfill these requirements is not well documented. As a preliminary analysis, we investigated seasonal cycles in the body mass of pigeons, which we weighed quarterly over a period of six years. [Our work with these animals complied with all applicable institutional regulations (University of Groningen Animal Experimentation Committee, license no. 5095) and Dutch and European laws.] We employed several of statistical techniques aimed at 1) quantifying the repeatability of seasonality and 2) comparing within- and among-individual variation in seasonality. Our goal is to take what we have learned from our analyses of mass and apply it to other seasonally variable physiological traits, including variables related to immune function.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1786/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology'], [u'University of Groningen', u'Groningen Evolutionary Life Sciences Institute, University of Groningen']]
[u'Students\u2019 and professionals\u2019 perceptions of test-driven development: a focus group study', ['Giuseppe Scanniello', 'Simone Romano', 'Davide Fucci', 'Burak Turhan', 'Natalia Juristo'], u'2016-02-26', u'We have conducted a qualitative investigation on test-driven development (TDD) with focus groups in order to develop insights on the opinions of developers using TDD regarding the unintuitive process involved, its claimed effects, as well as the context factors that can facilitate (or hinder) its application. In particular, we conducted two focus group sessions: one with professional developers and another with Master students in Computer Science at the University of Basilicata. We used thematic analysis template (TAT) method for iden- tifying patterns, themes, and interpretations in the gathered data. The application of this qualitative method allowed us to obtain a number of results that can provide directions for future research. Our main results can be summarized as follows: (i) applying TDD without knowing advanced unit testing techniques can be difficult; (ii) refactoring (one of the phases of TDD) is not done as often as the process re- quires; (iii) there is a need for live feedback to let developers understand if TDD is being applied correctly; and (iv) the usefulness of TDD hinges on task and domain to which it is applied to.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1619/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Computer Science, and Economics, University of Basilicata', u'Information Technology and Electrical Engineering, University of Oulu', u'Facultad de Informatica, Universidad Polit\xe9cnica de Madrid']]
[u'True\xb4s beaked whale (Mesoplodon mirus) in Macaronesia', ['Natacha Aguilar de Soto', 'Vidal Martin', 'Monica Silva', 'Roland Edler', 'Cristel Reyes', 'Manuel Carrillo', 'Agustina Schiavi', 'Talia Morales', 'Belen Garcia-Ovide', 'Anna Sanchez-Mora', 'Nerea Garcia-Tavero', 'Lisa Steiner', 'Michael Scheer', 'Roland Gockel', 'Dylan Walker', 'Enrico Villa', 'Petra Szlama', 'Emma Carroll'], u'2016-02-25', u'The True\xb4s beaked whale (Mesoplodon mirus, True 1913) is a poorly studied member of the speciose Ziphiidae family. Its distribution in the North Hemisphere is thought to be restricted to the temperate or warm temperate waters of the North Atlantic, while a small number of stranding records from the Southern Hemisphere suggest a wider distribution, extending from the Atlantic coast of Brazil to South Africa, Australia and the Tasman Sea coast of New Zealand. Here we i) report the first molecular confirmation of the occurrence of True\xb4s beaked whales around the Azores and Canary Islands (Macaronesian ecoregion), the species\u2019 southern limit in the northeast Atlantic; ii) describe a new colouration for this species; and iii) contribute to the sparse worldwide database of live sightings, including the first underwater video, of this species. In November 2012, a 390 cm male True\u2019s beaked whale stranded in El Hierro, Canary Islands. In July 2004, a subadult male True\u2019s beaked whale was found floating dead near Faial, Azores. Species identification was confirmed in both cases using mitochondrial DNA control region and cytochrome b gene markers. The whale that stranded in the Canary Islands had a clearly delimited white area on its head, extending posteriorly from the tip of the beak to cover the blowhole dorsally and the gular grooves ventrally. This colouration contrasts with previous descriptions for the species and it may be rare, but it demonstrates that True\xb4s beaked whales show variable colourations in the North Atlantic. This is confirmed by sightings data. Given the presence of this species around the Azores and the Canary Islands, it would be expected that True\xb4s beaked whales also occur in the area between these archipelagos, including the islands of Madeira.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1785/', ['Biodiversity', 'Genetics', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Centre for Research into Ecological Modelling (CREEM), University of St. Andrews', u'Dept. Animal Biology, Edaphology and Geology, University of La Laguna', u'Society for the Study of Cetaceans in the Canary Archipelago (SECAC)', u'Institute of Marine Research, University of the Azores, Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre', u'Biology Department, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution', u'Dolphinarium, Zoo Duisburg', u'SMRU, University of St. Andrews', u'Cetacean, Canarias Conservacion', u'Department of marine mammals, Canarias Conservaci\xf3n. Cetacean & Sea Turtle Research Society', u'Whale Watch Azores', u'M.E.E.R. e.V.', u'M.E.E.R.', u'World Cetacean Alliance', u'CetaceanWatching Lda', u'Scottish Ocean Institute, University of St. Andrews']]
[u'Comparison of functional connectivity between empirical and randomized structural brain networks', ['Seyma Bayrak', 'Philipp Hovel', 'Vesna Vuksanovic'], u'2016-02-25', u'This study combines experimental and modeling approaches in order to investigate the temporal dynamics of the human brain at rest. The dynamics of the neuronal activity is modeled with FitzHugh-Nagumo oscillators and the blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) time series is inferred via the Balloon-Windkessel hemodynamic model. The simulations are based on structural connections that are derived from diffusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging measurements yielding anatomical probabilities between the considered brain regions of interest. In addition, the length of the fiber tracks allows for inference of coupling delays due to finite signal propagation velocities. We aim (i) to investigate the network topology of our neuroimaging data and (ii) how randomization of structural connections influence dynamics on top of it. The network characteristics of the structural connectivity data are compared to density-matched Erd\u0151s-R\xe9nyi random graphs. Furthermore, the neuronal and BOLD activity are modeled on both real and random (Erd\u0151s-R\xe9nyi type) graphs. The simulated temporal dynamics on both graphs are compared statistically to capture whether the spatial organization of these network affects the modeled time series. Results supported that key topological network properties such as small-worldness of our neuroimaging data are distinguishable from random networks. Moreover, the simulated BOLD activity on real and random graphs are observed to be dissimilar. The difference of the modeled temporal dynamics on the brain and random graphs suggests that anatomical connections in the human brain together with dynamical self-organization are crucial for the temporal evolution of the resting-state activity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1784/', ['Computational Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Biology, Otto-von-Guericke Universit\xe4t Magdeburg', u'Max-Planck Institute for Human Cognitive and Brain Sciences', u'Institute for Theoretical Physics, Technische Universit\xe4t Berlin', u'Bernstein Center for Computational Neuroscience Berlin, Humboldt Universit\xe4t zu Berlin', u'Aberdeen Biomedical Imaging Centre, University of Aberdeen']]
[u'Reproductive biology of the biofuel plant Jatropha curcas in its center of origin', ['Manuel Rincon-Rabanales', 'Laura I. Vargas-Lopez', 'Lourdes Adriano-Anaya', 'Alfredo Vazquez-Ovando', 'Miguel Salvador-Figueroa', 'Isidro Ovando-Medina'], u'2016-02-25', u'In this work, we studied the main characteristics of flowering, reproductive system and diversity of pollinators for the biofuel plant Jatropha curcas (L.) in a site of tropical southeastern Mexico, within its center of origin. The plants were monoecious with inflorescences of unisexual flowers. The male flowers produced from 3062 to 5016 pollen grains (266-647 per anther). The plants produced fruits with both geitonogamy and xenogamy, although insect pollination significantly increased the number and quality of fruits. A high diversity of flower visiting insects (36 species) was found, of which nine were classified as efficient pollinators. The native stingless bees Scaptotrigona mexicana (Gu\xe9rin-Meneville) and Trigona (Tetragonisca) angustula (Latreille) were the most frequent visitors and their presence coincided with the hours when the stigma was receptive. It is noteworthy that the female flowers open before the male flowers, favoring xenogamy, which may explain the high genetic variability reported in J. curcas for this region of the world.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1587/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Entomology'], [u'Instituto de Biociencias, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Chiapas']]
[u'The interplay between habitat structure and chemical contaminants on biotic responses of benthic organisms', ['Mariana Mayer Pinto', 'Miguel G Matias', 'Ross A Coleman'], u'2016-02-25', u'Habitat structure influences the diversity and distribution of organisms, potentially affecting their response to disturbances by either affecting their \u2018susceptibility\u2019 or through the provision of resources that can mitigate impacts of disturbances. Chemical disturbances due to contamination are associated with decreases in diversity and functioning of systems and are also likely to increase due to coastal urbanisation. Understanding how habitat structure interacts with contaminants is essential to predict and therefore manage such effects, minimising their consequences to marine systems. Here, we manipulated two structurally different habitats and exposed them to different types of contaminants. Effects of contamination and habitat structure interacted, affecting species richness. More complex experimental habitats were colonized by a greater diversity of organisms than the less complex habitats. These differences disappeared, however, when habitats were exposed to contaminants, suggesting that contaminants can override effects of habitats structure at small spatial scales. These results provide insight into the complex ways that habitat structure and contamination interact and the need to incorporate evidence of biotic responses from individual disturbances to multiple stressors. Such effects need to be taken into account when designing and planning management and conservation strategies to natural systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1783/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Toxicology'], [u'Evolution and Ecology Research Centre; School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales', u'Faculty of Natural Science, Imperial College London', u'School of Life & Environmental Science, The University of Sydney']]
[u'Glutamate, GABA and Serotonin concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid and primary somatosensory cortex of birth-enucleated rats: Searching for S1 intrinsic and extrinsic epigenetic regulatory signals modulating neonatal cross-modal plasticity', ['Raquel Martinez-Mendez', 'Patricia Padilla-Cortes', 'Margarita Gomez-Chavarin', 'Gabriel Gutierrez-Ospina'], u'2016-02-25', u'Neonatal eye loss leads to an expansion of the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) in rodents. In blind rats, S1 expansion results from the predisplacement of S1 formation during the first three days of life, a process modulated by epigenetic factors. Some of these factors might be local and some others may come from extra-S1 sources such as the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Thus, we evaluated the concentration of glutamate, GABA and serotonin in the CSF and S1 of control and birth-enucleated rat pups. These neurotransmitters modulate through epigenetic mechanisms several aspects of brain development and also regulate S1 formation. Our results show, first, that axon segregation during barrel formation is discreetly predisplaced in birth-enucleated rats. Second, S1 glutamate, GABA and serotonin concentrations were similar in control and birth-enucleated rats during S1 formation. Lastly, CSF glutamate concentration decreased in birth-enucleated rats during S1 formation. Overall, our results open the possibility that neurochemical shifts in the CSF might modulate S1 expansion in enucleated rats. Further studies are needed to establish causal links.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1782/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Departamento de Biolog\xeda Celular y Fisiolog\xeda, Instituto de Investigaciones Biom\xe9dicas, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Programa de Doctorado en Ciencias Biom\xe9dicas, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Unidad de HPLC, Instituto de Investigaciones Biom\xe9dicas, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Departamento de Fisiolog\xeda, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Departamento de Biolog\xeda Celular y Fisiolog\xeda, Instituto de Investigaciones Biom\xe9dicas, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Coordinaci\xf3n de Psicobiolog\xeda y Neurociencias, Facultad de Psicolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico']]
[u'Zika virus: A newly emergent vector-borne public health threat in the Americas', ['Sujit Pujhari', 'Jason L. Rasgon'], u'2016-02-23', u'Zika virus is a newly emergent mosquito-borne flavivirus. Once almost ignored epidemiologically, recent major outbreaks and links to neurological birth defects have focused attention on this neglected pathogen. We review the discovery, biology and symptomatology of Zika virus, what is known and not known about the mosquitoes that transmit the virus, conspiracy theories currently hampering control efforts, and potential avenues of Zika control. It is likely that Zika virus is here to stay in the Americas, so a thorough understanding of the complete epidemiological transmission cycle and potential effects on the human population will be critical for managing this new disease in the coming years.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1781/', ['Entomology', 'Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Entomology, Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'OncoLnc: Linking TCGA survival data to mRNAs, miRNAs, and lncRNAs', ['Jordan Anaya'], u'2016-02-23', u'OncoLnc is a tool for interactively exploring survival correlations, and for downloading clinical data coupled to expression data for mRNAs, miRNAs, or lncRNAs. OncoLnc contains survival data for 8,647 patients from 21 cancer studies performed by The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA), along with RNA-SEQ expression for mRNAs and miRNAs from TCGA, and lncRNA expression from MiTranscriptome beta. Storing this data gives users the ability to separate patients by gene expression, and then create publication-quality Kaplan-Meier plots or download the data for further analyses. OncoLnc also stores precomputed survival analyses, allowing users to quickly explore survival correlations for up to 21 cancers in a single click. This resource allows researchers studying a specific gene to quickly investigate if it may have a role in cancer, and the supporting data allows researchers studying a specific cancer to identify the mRNAs, miRNAs, and lncRNAs most correlated with survival, and researchers looking for a novel lncRNA involved with cancer lists of potential candidates. OncoLnc is available at http://www.oncolnc.org', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1780/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Databases'], [u'omnesres.com']]
[u'A preliminary case study of the effect of shoe-wearing on the biomechanics of a horse\u2019s foot', ['Olga Panagiotopoulou', 'Jeffery W Rankin', 'Stephen M Gatesy', 'Hyab Mehari Abraha', 'Jan Janzekovic', 'John R Hutchinson'], u'2016-02-23', u'Horse racing is a multi-billion-dollar industry that has raised welfare concerns due to disabled and euthanized animals. Whilst the cause of musculoskeletal injuries that lead to horse morbidity and mortality is multifactorial, pre-existing pathologies, increased speeds and substrate of the racecourse are likely contributors to foot disease. The hooves of horses have the ability to naturally deform during locomotion and dissipate locomotor stresses, yet farriery approaches are utilised to increase performance and protect hooves from wear. Previous studies have assessed the effect of different shoe designs on locomotor performance; however, no biomechanical study has hitherto measured the effect of horseshoes on the stresses of the foot skeleton in vivo. As there is a need to reduce musculoskeletal injuries in racing and training horses, it is crucial to understand the natural function of the feet of horses and how this is influenced by shoe design. This preliminary study introduces a novel combination of three-dimensional data from biplanar radiography, inverse dynamics, and finite element analysis (FEA) to evaluate the effect of a stainless steel shoe on the function of a Thoroughbred horse\u2019s front foot during walking. Our results show that the stainless steel shoe increases craniocaudal, mediolateral and vertical GRFs at mid-stance. We document a similar pattern of flexion-extension in the PIP (pastern) and DIP (coffin) joint between the unshod and shod conditions, yet variation in the degrees of rotations are encountered throughout the stance phase. In particular, in both the shod and unshod conditions, the PIP joint extends between the 10-40% of the stance phase and flexes before mid-stance and until the end of the stance phase. Similarly the DIP joint extends until the 40% of stance and then flexes until the end of the stance phase. Overall at mid-stance the PIP joint extends more at the shod (-2.9o) than the unshod (-1.5o) horse, whilst the DIP joint extends more at the unshod (-3.6o), than the shod (-2.8o) condition. We also document that the DIP joint flexes more than the PIP after mid-stance and until the end of the stance in both conditions. Our FEA results show increased von Mises stresses on the fore foot phalanges in the shod condition at mid-stance, indicating that the steel shoe increases mechanical loading. Our preliminary study illustrates how the shoe may influence the dynamics and mechanics of a Thoroughbred horse\u2019s forefoot during slow walking, but more research is needed to quantify the effect of the shoe on the equine forefoot during the whole stance phase, at faster speeds/gaits and with more individuals as well as with a similar focus on the hind feet. We anticipate that our preliminary analysis using advanced methodological approaches will pave the way for new directions in research on the form/function relationship of the equine foot, with the ultimate goal to minimise foot injuries and improve animal health and welfare.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1779/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, Royal Veterinary College', u'School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland', u'Structure and Motion Laboratory, Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Brown University']]
[u'Identification of bladder cancer biomarkers by genomic approaches', ['Tadeusz Majewski', 'Jolanta Bondaruk', 'Sangkyou Lee', 'June Goo Lee', 'Keitg Baggerly', 'David McConkey', 'Bogdan Czerniak'], u'2016-02-23', u'Bladder Cancer is one of the most frequent human cancer which develops on two tracks, papillary and non-papillary that correspond to clinically different forms of the disease. Most bladder cancers are chemically induced with tobacco smoking being the leading risk factor. Recent advances of bladder cancer research for which our laboratory has significantly contributed have enhanced the understanding of the origin of bladder cancer from urothelial progenitor cells via field effects along papillary/luminal non-papillary/basal pathways. Here we present the contribution to the development of novel, both diagnostic and therapeutic, biomarkers using genomic high throughput technologies.\nThe analysis of hits associated with growth advantage of preneoplastic lesions allowed us to identify six chromosomal regions mapping 3q22, 5q22.2-5q23.3, 9q22.12, 10q26.1, 13q14 and 17p13 that may be critical for the development of bladder cancer and contain a distinct class of genes referred to us forerunner (FR) genes involved in the clonal expansion of precursor conditions. We concentrated our efforts on one of these regions; which contain a model tumor suppressor RB1. We used high-resolution whole-organ mapping with SNPs, which facilitated the identification of five positional candidate FR genes (ITM2B, LPAR6, MLNR, CAB39L, and ARL11) mapping contiguously to RB1. We hypothesized that identification of novel forerunner genes and the investigation in early occult phases of human bladder preneoplasia may not only provide important mechanistic clues to the development of human cancer but also identify a novel class of early detection markers capable of detecting the clinically and microscopically occult phases of human cancer development.\nWe used the whole-organ histologic and genetic mapping strategy coupled with next generation whole exome sequencing using complemented with genotyping using Illumina HumanOmni2.5_8 chips and whole genome methylation analyses to define the molecular alterations that were associated with the progression of muscle-invasive bladder cancer in one surgical specimen.\nWe identified a total of 18 structurally significant mutations, three of which appeared to be clear "driver" mutations that had been annotated previously. Alterations in chromatin hyper- and hypomethylation predominated in all of the regions that contained normal-appearing urothelium or low-grade dysplasia. In total, 31 genes were hypermethylated and 26 genes were hypomethylated. Copy number alterations were numerous (n=242) in areas that contained high-grade dysplasia suggesting that genomic instability proceeded the emergence of driver mutations in what ultimately emerged as the dominant tumor subclone. Chromosomal gains (n=216) vastly outnumbered losses (n=26).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1778/', ['Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Pathology', 'Urology'], [u'Department of Pathology, UT MD Anderson Cancer Center', u'Department of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, UT MD Anderson Cancer Center', u'Department of Urology-Research, UT MD Anderson Cancer Center']]
[u'The effects of phthalates on Nereis diversicolor', ['Ashwaq Alnemari', 'Joerg Hardege'], u'2016-02-23', u'Animals are exposed, in the natural environment, to a range of human activity related dissolved chemicals that are potentially impacting on their fitness. The animals responses to such stress determines its fitness, physiology and in case of chemical signals also its behaviour. If physical or chemical changes in the ecosystem make the detection of such a chemical impossible, then it can be reasonably assumed that vital behaviours of the animal will be significantly altered. Plastics are lighter, more durable, stronger and cheaper than other materials used for the same purposes, making them most suitable for producing a very broad range of goods and products. However, these same properties also make them serious environmental hazards i.e. they are easily carried and dispersed by water over long distances, and stopped by barriers and settle in the form of sediments that can persist for centuries. Phthalate esters are widely used as additives to offer flexibility to polyvinyl chloride (PVC) resins (Graham, 1973). DEHP and DMP are the most frequently used plasticizer in PVC formulas in consumer products (Metcalf et al. 1973; Carnevali et al. 2010). In general phthalate esters harmful environmental and human health effects are well documented and a range of studies documented harmful effects on both land and aquatic organisms (Metcalf et al. 1973; Lithner, et al. 2009). Neanthes (Nereis, Hediste) diversicolor is a bio-indicator species to monitor levels of pollution in a particular environment i.e. to by quantify levels of contaminant presents in the worms. Measuring these in N. diversicolor makes it possible to estimate and monitor levels of contamination in marine environments. The worms are easy to keep in laboratory conditions and can be collected in large numbers in the field and used as model species since the 1950s (Scaps, 2002). The main aim of this study is to investigate and determine the fate of phthalates in a Nereis culture system and to assess the impact of phthalates upon fitness such as feeding behaviours. For this worms are exposed to different concentration of DEHP (0.05, 2, and 10 ug/mL) over short term (days) and long term (3 months / lifespan). The aim of short term of exposure was to determine the fate of phthalates in a Nereis culture system to examine if phthalate degradation takes place. GC-MS is used to measure the phthalates. Liquid: liquid extraction was used to extract phthalates from water and worm tissue whereas accelerated solvent extraction was used to extract phthalates from sediment. The aim of long term of exposure was to investigate and assess the impact of phthalates on animals\u2019 functional traits (feeding response).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1776/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biological, Biomedical and Environmental Sciences, University of Hull']]
[u'Influence of sugar concentration on physicochemical properties and sensory attributes of sapodilla jam', ['Aftab Ahmed', 'Shinawar Waseem Ali', 'Khalil ur Rehman', 'Shakir Manzoor', 'Syed Rajab Ayub', 'Mahrukh Ilyas'], u'2016-02-23', u'Sapodilla has many uses from medicinal to dietary utilization. In recent years emphasis is focused on product diversification by development of value added sapodilla products to enhance its economic value. This study was carried out to investigate the effect of sugar concentration on the physiochemical properties like pH, moisture, ash, total acidity, viscosity, soluble solids, ascorbic acid and consumer acceptability of the product through sensory evaluation. Four samples S1, S2, S3 and S4 were formulated containing 550g, 600g, 650g and 700g sugar respectively. There was no significant difference observed in physiochemical properties of all sample due to sugar concentration. But among all samples S2 and S3 scored highest for color (7.7 and 7.9), flavor (7.6 and 7.7), taste (7.6 and 7.8), texture (7.2 and 7.9) and overall acceptance (7.5 and 7.7) which shows that jam with 550g and 600g sugar is best jam with good sensory attributes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1777/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'Institute of Agricultural Sciences, University of the Punjab']]
[u'\xadA practical application of reduced-copper antifouling paint in marine biological research', ['Andrea S. Jerabek', 'Kara R. Wall', 'Christopher D. Stallings'], u'2016-02-23', u'Predator exclusion cages are commonly used to enclose settlement tiles to distinguish between pre- and post-recruitment processes. Biofouling of experimental cages and other field apparatuses can be problematic, and has traditionally been addressed using frequent manual removal (e.g., scrubbing twice per week). However, such intense efforts can be both labor intensive and costly, especially with apparatuses in remote locations, and may also have unintended effects on study results. Recent environmental restrictions and legislative changes have driven the development of less hazardous antifouling products, making antifouling paint a potential alternative option to manual removal. The viability of using these newly developed products as a replacement for the manual cleaning of exclusion cages was experimentally investigated. Six treatment levels were tested, three with and three without antifouling paints. The three antifouling treatments consisted of two reduced-copper paints (21% Cu2O and 40% Cu2O) and one copper-free, Econea\xae-based paint (considered \u201cecofriendly\u201d). Antifouling paints were assessed for performance on the cages and whether they elicited local effects on settlement tiles contained within them. The community compositions, biomass, and percent cover of tiles inside cages treated with the copper-based paints were indistinguishable from those inside manually scrubbed cages, while the \u201cecofriendly\u201d paint resulted in reduced local settlement. The results of this study suggest that the reduced-copper paints tested have the potential to serve as a viable replacement for manual maintenance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1775/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'College of Science, Northeastern University', u'College of Marine Science, University of South Florida']]
[u'Uropygial gland and bib colouration in the house sparrow', ['Gregorio Moreno-Rueda'], u'2016-02-23', u'Birds frequently signal different qualities by plumage colouration, mainly during mating. However, plumage colouration is determined during the moult, and therefore it would indicate the quality of individual birds during the moult, not its current quality. Recent studies, however, suggest that birds could modify plumage colouration by using cosmetic preen oil. In this study, I show that bib colouration is related to uropygial gland size and body condition in male house sparrows (Passer domesticus). Moreover, I conducted an experiment in which a group of sparrows were inoculated with an antigen, mimicking an illness. In control birds, short-term changes in bib colouration were related to both body condition and change in uropygial gland size. Therefore, birds that spent more preen oil (thus, reducing uropygial gland size), showed a greater colouration change. However, bib colouration did not change with use of preen oil in experimental birds inoculated with the antigen. That is, the simulated illness cancelled the effect of preen oil on bib colouration. Given that the experiment did not affect preen oil production, this finding suggests that the immune challenge provoked a change in the composition of preen oil, affecting its cosmetic properties. In short, the results of this study suggest that (1) male house sparrows produce cosmetic preen oil that alters the colouration of their bibs; (2) the more effort in preening, the more change in bib colouration; and (3) in this way, bib colouration has the potential to signal current health status, since less healthy birds showed less capacity to change bib colouration.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1774/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Zoolog\xeda, Universidad de Granada']]
[u'Pteridine levels and head weights are correlated with age and colony task in the honey bee, Apis mellifera', ['Frank D Rinkevich', 'Joseph W Margotta', 'Jean M Pittman', 'James A Ottea', 'Kristen B Healy'], u'2016-02-23', u'Background. The age of an insect strongly influences many aspects of behavior and reproduction. This interaction is epitomized in the temporal polyethism of honey bees in which young adult bees perform nurse and maintenance duties within the colony, while older bees forage for nectar and pollen. Task transition is dynamic and is driven by colony needs. However, an abundance of precocious foragers or overage nurses may have detrimental effects on the colony. Additionally, honey bee age affects insecticide sensitivity. Therefore, determining the age of an individual honey bee would be important to provide a measurement of colony health. Pteridines are purine-based pigment molecules found in many insect body parts. Pteridine levels correlate well with age, and wild caught insects may be accurately aged by measuring pteridine levels. The relationship between pteridines and age varies with a number of internal and external factors among many species. Thus far, no studies have investigated the relationship of pteridines with age in honey bees. Methods. We established single-cohort colonies to obtain age-matched nurse and forager bees. Nurses and foragers were collected every 3-5 days for up to 42 days. Heads were removed and weighed before pteridines were purified and analyzed using previously established fluorometric methods. Results. Our analysis showed that pteridine levels were higher in foragers than nurses of the same age, and pteridine levels significantly increased with age in a linear manner. Head weight significantly varied with age increasing until approximately 28 days of age, then declining thereafter for both nurse and forager bees. Discussion. Although the relationship between pteridine levels and age was significant, a large amount of variation in the data yielded an 8-day window in age estimation. This allows an unambiguous method to determine whether a bee may be a young nurse or old forager. Pteridine levels in bees do not correlate with age as well as in other insects. However, most studies used insects reared under tightly controlled laboratory conditions, while we used free-living bees. The dynamics of head weight change with age is likely to be due to growth and atrophy of the hypopharyngeal glands. Taken together, these methods represent a useful tool for assessing colony demography after a colony experiences a stress event. Future studies utilizing these methods will provide a more holistic view of colony health.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1773/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Entomology, Louisiana State University Agricultural Center']]
[u'What flowers do we like? The influence of shape and color on the rating of flower beauty', ['Martin Hula', 'Jaroslav Flegr'], u'2016-02-23', u'There is no doubt that people find flowers beautiful. Surprisingly, we know very little about the actual properties which make flowers so appealing to humans. Although the evolutionary aesthetics provides some theories concerning generally preferred flower traits, empirical evidence is largely missing. In this study, we used an online survey in which residents of the Czech Republic (n = 2006) rated the perceived beauty of 52 flower stimuli of diverse shapes and colors. Colored flowers were preferred over their uncolored versions. When controlling for flower shape, we found an unequal preference for different flower colors, blue being the most and yellow the least preferred. In the overall assessment of beauty, shape was more important than color. Prototypical flowers, i.e., radially symmetrical flowers with low complexity, were rated as the most beautiful. We also found a positive effect of sharp flower contours and blue color on the overall rating of flower beauty. The results may serve as a basis for further studies in some areas of the people-plant interaction research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1772/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Philosophy and History of Science, Faculty of Science, Charles University Prague']]
[u'Judging a commit by its cover; or can a commit message predict build failure?', ['Eddie A Santos', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2016-02-23', u'Developers summarize their changes to code in commit messages. When a message seems \u201cunusual,\u201d however, this puts doubt into the quality of the code contained in the commit. We trained \\(n\\)-gram language models and used cross-entropy as an indicator of commit message \u201cunusualness\u201d of over 120 000 commits from open source projects. Build statuses collected from Travis-CI were used as a proxy for code quality. We then compared the distributions of failed and successful commits with regards to the \u201cunusualness\u201d of their commit message. Our analysis yielded significant results when correlating cross-entropy with build status.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1771/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Natural Language and Speech', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Mitochondrial aerobic respiration is activated during hair follicle stem cells differentiation and its dysfunction retards hair regeneration', ['Yan Tang', 'Binping Luo', 'Zhili Deng', 'Ben Wang', 'Fangfen L Liu', 'Jinmao Li', 'Wei Shi', 'Hongfu Xie', 'Ji Li'], u'2016-02-22', u'Background. Emerging researches revealed the essential role of mitochondria in regulating stem/progenitor cell differentiation of neural progenitor cells, mesenchymal stem cells and other stem cells through reactive oxygen species (ROS), Notch or other signaling pathway. And inhibition of mitochondrial synthesis protein resulted in extension of hair loss upon injury. However, alteration of mitochondrial morphology and metabolic function during hair follicle stem cells (HFSCs) differentiation and how it affects hair regeneration has not been elaborated. Methods. We compared the difference between telogen bulge cells and anagen matrix cells in mitochondrial morphology and activity. Expression levels of mitochondrial ROS and superoxide dismutase 2 (SOD2) were measured for evaluating redox balance. Besides, pyruvate dehydrogenase kinase (PDK) and pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) were detected to present the change in energetic metabolism during differentiation. To explore the effect of the mitochondrial metabolism on regulating hair regeneration, hair growth was observed after application of a mitochondrial respiratory inhibitor upon hair plucking. Results. During HFSCs differentiation, mitochondria became elongated with more abundant organized cristae and showed higher activity in differentiated cells. SOD2 was enhanced for redox balance with relatively poised ROS expression levels in differentiated cells. PDK increased in HFSCs while differentiated cells showed enhanced PDH, indicating that respiration converted from glycolysis to oxidative phosphorylation during differentiation. Inhibiting mitochondrial respiration in differentiated hair follicle cells upon hair plucking held back hair regeneration in vivo. Conclusions. Upon HFSCs differentiation, mitochondria was elongated with more abundant cristae and showed higher activity, accompanied with activated aerobic respiration in differentiated cells for higher energy supply. And dysfunction of mitochondrial respiration delays hair regeneration upon injury.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1769/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Dermatology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Dermatology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University', u'Xiangya Hospital, Central South University']]
[u'Epithelial, metabolic and innate immunity transcriptomic signatures differentiating the rumen from other sheep and mammalian gastrointestinal tract tissues', ['Ruidong Xiang', 'Victor Hutton Oddy', 'Alan L. Archibald', 'Phillip E. Vercoe', 'Brian P. Dalrymple'], u'2016-02-21', u'Background. Ruminants are successful herbivorous mammals, in part due to their specialized forestomachs, the rumen complex, which facilitates the conversion of feed to soluble nutrients by micro-organisms. Is the rumen complex a modified stomach expressing new epithelial (cornification) and metabolic programs, or a specialised stratified epithelium that has acquired new metabolic activities, potentially similar to those of the colon? How has the presence of the rumen affected other sections of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) of ruminants compared to non-ruminants? Methods. Transcriptome data from 11 tissues covering the sheep GIT, two stratified epithelial and two control tissues, was analysed using principal components to cluster tissues based on gene expression profile similarity. Expression profiles of genes along the sheep GIT were used to generate a network to identify genes enriched for expression in different compartments of the GIT. The data from sheep was compared to similar data sets from two non-ruminants, pigs (closely related) and humans (more distantly related). Results. The rumen transcriptome clustered with the skin and tonsil, but not the GIT transcriptomes, driven by genes from the epidermal differentiation complex, and genes encoding stratified epithelium keratins and innate immunity proteins. By analysing all of the gene expression profiles across tissues together 16 major clusters were identified. The strongest of these, and consistent with the high turnover rate of the GIT, showed a marked enrichment of cell cycle process genes (P=1.4E-46), across the whole GIT, relative to liver and muscle, with highest expression in the caecum followed by colon and rumen. The expression patterns of several membrane transporters (chloride, zinc, nucleosides, amino acids, fatty acids, cholesterol and bile acids) along the GIT was very similar in sheep, pig and humans. In contrast, short chain fatty acid uptake and metabolism appeared to be different between the species and different between the rumen and colon in sheep. The importance of nitrogen and iodine recycling in sheep was highlighted by the highly preferential expression of SLC14A1-urea (rumen), RHBG-ammonia (intestines) and SLC5A5-iodine (abomasum). The gene encoding a poorly characterized member of the maltase-glucoamylase family (MGAM2), predicted to play a role in the degradation of starch or glycogen, was highly expressed in the small and large intestines. Discussion. The rumen appears to be a specialised stratified cornified epithelium, probably derived from the oesophagus, which has gained some liver-like and other specialized metabolic functions, but probably not by expression of pre-existing colon metabolic programs. Changes in gene transcription downstream of the rumen also appear have occurred as a consequence of the evolution of the rumen and its effect on nutrient composition flowing down the GIT.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1766/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Genomic Technologies, CSIRO Agriculture', u'NSW Department of Primary Industries,Beef Industry Centre, University of New England', u'The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, University of Edinburgh', u'School of Animal Biology and Institute of Agriculture, The University of Western Australia']]
[u'Identification of phenolic secondary metabolites from Schotia brachypetala Sond. (Fabaceae) and demonstration of their antioxidant activities in Caenorhabditis elegans', ['Mansour Sobeh', 'Esraa A ElHawary', 'Herbenya Peixoto', 'Rola M Labib', 'Heba Handoussa', 'Noha Swilam', 'Ahmed H. El-Khatib', 'Farukh Sharapov', 'Tamer Mahmoud', 'Sonja Krstin', 'Michael W Linscheid', 'Abdel Nasser B. Singab', 'Michael Wink', 'Nahla Ayoub'], u'2016-02-21', u'Background: Schotia brachypetala Sond. (Fabaceae) is an endemic tree of Southern Africa whose phytochemistry and pharmacology were slightly studied.The present work aimed at profiling the major phenolics compounds present in the hydro-alcoholic extract from S. brachypetala leaves (SBE) using LC/HRESI/MS/MS and NMR and prove their antioxidant capabilities using novel methods. Methods: In vitro assays; DPPH, TEAC persulfate decolorizing kinetic and FRAP assays, and in vivo assays: Caenorhabditis elegans strains maintenance, Intracellular ROS in C. elegans, Survival assay, GFP expression and Subcellular DAF-16 localization were employed to evaluate the antioxidant activity. Results: More than forty polyphenols ,including flavonoid glycosides, galloylated flavonoid glycosides, isoflavones, dihydrochalcones, procyanidins, anthocyanins, hydroxybenzoic acid derivatives, hydrolysable tannins, and traces of methylated and acetylated flavonoid derivatives were identified. Three compounds were isolated and identified from the genus Schotia for the first time, namely gallic acid, myricetin-3-O-\u03b1-L-1C4-rhamnoside and quercetin-3-O-L-1C4-rhamnoside.The tested extract was able to protect the worms against juglone induced oxidative stress and attenuate the reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation. SBE was also able to attenuate the levels of heat shock protein (HSP) expression. Discussion: A pronounced antioxidant activity in vivo, which can be attributed to its ability to promote the nuclear translocation of DAF-16/FOXO, the main transcription factor regulating the expression of stress response genes. The remarkable antioxidant activity in vitro and in vivo correlates to SBE rich phenolic profile.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1768/', ['Plant Science', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University', u'Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University', u'Department of Pharmaceutical Biology, Faculty of Pharmacy and Biotechnology, German University in Cairo', u'Department of Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, British University in Egypt', u'Department of Chemistry, Humboldt Universit\xe4t Berlin', u'Pharmaceutical Analytical Chemistry Department, Faculty of pharmacy, Ain Shams University', u'Department of Chemistry, Humboldt-Universitaet zu Berlin', u'Department of  Pharmacognosy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University', u'Pharmacy, Ain Shams University', u'Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of medicine, Umm Al-Qura University']]
[u'Models for biomass prediction of Cunninghamia lanceolata tree and stands in Southeastern China', ['Mei Guangyi', 'Sun Yujun'], u'2016-02-21', u'Large uncertainties still remain when using existing biomass equations to estimate total tree and forest stand scale. In this paper, we develop individual-tree biomass models for Chinese fir (Cunninghamia lanceolata \uff08Lamb.\uff09Hook.) stands in Fujian Province, southeast of China. For this, we used 74 previously established models that are most commonly used to estimate tree biomass, and selected the best fit models and modified it. The results showed the published model with ln(B) (biomass), ln(D) (diameter at breast height), (ln(H)) 2, (total height) (ln(H))3 and ln(WD) (wood density) to be the best fitting model for estimating the tree biomass of Chinese fir. Furthermore, we observed that variables D, H (height), WD significantly correlated with the total tree biomass estimation model, as a result of it portraying the natural logarithm structure to be the best tree biomass structure. Finally, when a multi-step improvement on tree biomass model was performed, the analytic model with TV (tree volume), WD and BECF (biomass wood density conversion factor), achieved the highest accuracy simulation. Therefore, when combined with TV, WD and BECF to tree biomass volume coefficient bi for Chinese fir, the optimal model is the forest stand biomass (SB) estimation model, model with variables of stand volume (SV) and coefficient bi.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1767/', ['Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Soil Science'], [u'College of forestry, Beijing Forestry University (\u5317\u4eac\u6797\u4e1a\u5927\u5b66)']]
[u'Patterns of success in game bird introductions in the United States', ['Michael P Moulton', 'Wendell P Cropper', 'Andrew J Broz', 'Salvador A Gezan'], u'2016-02-20', u'Better predictions of the success of species\u2019 introductions require careful evaluation of the relative importance of at least three kinds of factors: species characteristics, characteristics of the site of introduction, and event-level factors such as propagule pressure. Historical records of bird introductions provide a unique method for addressing the relative importance of these factors. We compiled a list of introductions of 17 Phasianid species released in the USA during the Foreign Game Investigation Program (FGIP). These records indicate that releases for some Phasianid species in the USA continued long after establishment. For many of the 13 species that always failed, even numerous releases and large numbers of individuals per release were not enough for successful establishment, yet several of these species were successfully introduced elsewhere. Only four species were successful in at least one state. Yet, all four were unsuccessful either in other states, or in other regions of states where they were not already successfully established, or both. These results support the notion that the number of individuals released and the number of releases are less important than characteristics of the location where the introductions occurred.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1765/', ['Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Wildlife Ecology and Conservation/ University of Florida, University of Florida', u'School of Forest Resources and Conservation, University of Florida']]
[u'DICOM for quantitative imaging biomarker development: A standards based approach to sharing clinical data and structured PET/CT analysis results in head and neck cancer research', ['Andriy Fedorov', 'David Clunie', 'Ethan Ulrich', 'Christian Bauer', 'Andreas Wahle', 'Bartley Brown', 'Michael Onken', 'Jorg Riesmeier', 'Steve Pieper', 'Ron Kikinis', 'John Buatti', 'Reinhard R. Beichel'], u'2016-02-20', u'Background. Imaging biomarkers hold tremendous promise in the precision medicine clinical applications. Development of such biomarkers relies heavily on image post-processing tools for automated image quantitation. Their deployment in the context of clinical research necessitates interoperability with the clinical systems. Comparison with the established outcomes and evaluation motivate integration of the clinical and imaging data, and the use of standardized approaches to sharing analysis results and semantics. We develop the methodology and supporting tools to perform these tasks in Positron Emission Tomography and Computed Tomography (PET/CT) quantitative imaging (QI) biomarker development applied to head and neck cancer (HNC) treatment response assessment, using the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM\xae) international standard and free open source software tools.\nMethods. Quantitative analysis of PET/CT imaging data collected on patients undergoing treatment for HNC was conducted. Processing steps included Standardized Uptake Value (SUV) normalization of the images, segmentation of the tumor and reference regions of interest using manual and semi-automatic approaches, and extraction of the volumetric segmentation-based measurements. Suitable components of the DICOM standard were identified to model the various types of data produced by the analysis. A developer toolkit of conversion routines and an Application Programming Interface (API) were contributed and applied to create a standards-based representation of the data.\nResults. DICOM Real World Value Mapping, Segmentation and Structured Reporting objects were utilized for standards-compliant representation of the PET/CT QI analysis results. A number of correction proposals to the standard were developed. The open source DICOM toolkit (DCMTK) was improved to simplify the task of encoding via new API abstractions. Conversion and visualization tools utilizing this toolkit were developed. The encoded objects were validated for consistency and interoperability. The resulting dataset was deposited to the QIN-HEADNECK collection of The Cancer Imaging Archive. Supporting tools for data analysis and DICOM conversion were made available as free open source software.\nDiscussion. We presented a detailed investigation of the development and application of the DICOM model, as well as the supporting open source tools and toolkits, to accommodate representation of the research data in QI biomarker development. We demonstrated that DICOM standard can be used to represent various types of the analysis results and encode their complex relationships. The resulting annotated objects are amenable for data mining applications, and are interoperable with a variety of systems that adopt the DICOM standard.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1541/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Clinical Trials', 'Oncology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u"Department of Radiology, Brigham and Women's Hospital", u'Harvard Medical School, Harvard University', u'PixelMed Publishing, LLC', u'Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Iowa', u'Iowa Institute for Biomedical Imaging, University of Iowa', u'Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology, University of Iowa', u'OpenConnections GmbH', u'Freelancer', u'Isomics, Inc.', u'Fraunhofer MEVIS', u'Mathematics/Computer Science Faculty, University of Bremen', u'Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine', u'Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa']]
[u'Comparison of organic material application methods at "Majuro Atoll"', ['Masato Oda'], u'2016-02-20', u'The climate of Majuro Atoll is stable, and the soil is coral sand which has low levels of organic matter and nutrients and high percolation rates. This relatively stress-free climate and simple soil environment provides ideal conditions for the study of organic material application methods. In this study, I examined the efficiency of organic material application methods in five experiments using sweet corn crops. I obtained the following results: 1) Biomass output was correlated with residue input; however, input/output ratios converged to 0.5 at 15 Mg ha-1 a year (3 Mg ha-1 per crop). 2) The most efficient residue application rate was 2\u20133 Mg dry matter ha-1 crop-1. 3) In terms of organic material application methods, scattering was the most effective, followed by incorporation. Cutting, short-term fermenting, mulching, and crop bed were not effective because of the areas humid climate and low levels of soil organic matter.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1764/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Crop, Livestock & Environment Division, Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'The analysis of the canid mitochondrial genome studied in Morocco shows that it is neither wolf (Canis lupus) nor Eurasian jackal (Canis aureus)', ['Vicente Urios Moliner', 'Maria P Donat-Torres', 'Carlos A Ramirez Castillo', 'Octavio Monroy-Vilchis', 'Hamid Rguibi Idrissi'], u'2016-02-20', u'The mitochondrial genome of three Moroccan canids has been analysed. Two of them complete and one partial. The sequences are included in GenBank with the accession number KT378605 (16721 bp), KT378606 (16734bp) and KT378607 (27809bp) Theses results have been compared with the results currently available in GenBank. In the phylogenetic analysis of the of cytochrome b regions and control region the three are grouped together with Canis lupus lupaster and the Senegalese golden jackal Canis aureus and separate from the wolf Canis lupus and the Eurasian golden jackal Canis aureus. The comparison of the complete mitochondrial genomes with Canis lupus confirms the distance between the two groups. We conclude that they belong to a different species to the wolf Canis lupus and the Eurasian golden jackal. We propose in agreement with (Koepfli et al., 2015) that it\xb4s scientific name be Canis anthus by merit of being the name by which it was classified and published for the first time as a different species by Cuvier in 1824.\nThe preprint is a translation of a Spanish document published in Altorero journal on the 15th August 2015.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1763/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Investigation Group of Vertebrate Zoology, Universidad de Alicante', u'Research Institute for Integrated Coastal Zone Management, Universidad Polit\xe9cnica de Valencia', u'Biological Research Center of Applied Science, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Faculty of Science, University Chouaib Doukkali']]
[u'Development of a novel molecular tool for the rapid assessment of changes in biodiversity of benthic nematodes assemblages', ['Ana Patricia Avo', 'Tim Daniell', 'Roy Neilson', 'Solange Oliveira', 'Helena Adao'], u'2016-02-20', u'Nowadays molecular approaches are being used in population estimation of terrestrial nematode communities offering a more efficient and faster alternative over microscopy-based methods. A molecular profiling tool was developed using directed Terminal-Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (dT-RFLP) to characterize soil nematode assemblages by relative abundance of feeding guilds, and validated by comparison with traditional morphological method. Combining morphological and molecular analysis of benthic nematodes assemblages, the main aim of this study was to develop and validate the dT-RFLP tool for benthic nematodes. Estimation of population size was derived using real time PCR (qPCR). A molecular phylogenetic analysis of benthic nematodes was created based on a database of 18S rDNA sequences related to individuals identified to species level. dT-RFLP results showed that the digest strategy developed for soil nematodes was not suitable for benthic nematodes. A new dT-RFLP strategy for benthic assemblages was designed by using the sequence database coupled with cloning and sequencing the whole assemblage from five samples. Several solutions were identified by the DRAT software and tested empirically to select the optimum solution that separates the assemblages. qPCR results showed differences in gene copy number between two sampling sites, which is consistently with the results of nematode density obtained by traditional methods. The application of these high-throughput molecular approaches for benthic nematodes will improve sample throughput and their implementation more efficient and faster as an indicator of marine ecosystem health.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1762/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'MARE- Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, University of \xc9vora', u'Ecological Sciences, The James Hutton Institute', u'Department of Biology, University of \xc9vora', u'University of Evora, Deparment of Biology, MARE- Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, University of \xc9vora']]
[u'Towards a barrier height benchmark set for biologically relevant systems', ['Jimmy C Kromann', 'Anders S Christensen', 'Qiang Cui', 'Jan H. Jensen'], u'2016-02-20', u'We have collected computed barrier heights and reaction energies (and associated model structures) for five enzymes from studies published by Himo and co-workers. Using this data, obtained at the B3LYP/6- 311+G(2d,2p)[LANL2DZ]//B3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level of theory, we then benchmark PM6, PM7, PM7-TS, and DFTB3 and discuss the influence of system size, bulk solvation, and geometry re-optimization on the error. The mean absolute differences (MADs) observed for these five enzyme model systems are similar to those observed for PM6 and PM7 for smaller systems (10-15 kcal/mol), while DFTB results in a MAD that is significantly lower (6 kcal/mol). The MADs for PMx and DFTB3 are each dominated by large errors for a single system and if the system is disregarded the MADs fall to 4-5 kcal/mol. Overall, results for the condensed phase are neither more or less accurate relative to B3LYP than those in the gas phase. With the exception of PM7-TS, the MAD for small and large structural models are very similar, with a maximum deviation of 3 kcal/mol for PM6. Geometry optimization with PM6 shows that for one system this method predicts a different mechanism compared to B3LYP/6-31G(d,p). For the remaining systems geometry optimization of the large structural model increases the MAD relative to single points, by 2.5 and 1.8 kcal/mol for barriers and reaction energies. For the small structural model the corresponding MADs decrease by 0.4 and 1.2 kcal/mol, respectively. However, despite these small changes, significant changes in the structures are observed for some systems, such as proton transfer and hydrogen bonding rearrangements. The paper represents the first step in the process of creating a benchmark set of barriers computed for systems that are relatively large and representative of enzymatic reactions, a considerable challenge for any one research group but possible through a concerted effort by the community. We end by outlining steps needed to expand and improve the data set and how other researchers can contribute to the process.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1741/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of  Chemistry, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'Exploring the chemical space of influenza neuraminidase inhibitors', ['Nuttapat Anuwongcharoen', 'Watshara Shoombuatong', 'Tanawut Tantimongcolwat', 'Virapong Prachayasittikul', 'Chanin Nantasenamat'], u'2016-02-20', u'The fight against the emergence of mutant influenza strains has led to the screening of an increasing number of compounds for inhibitory activity against influenza neuraminidase. This study explores the chemical space of neuraminidase inhibitors (NAIs), which provides an opportunity to obtain further molecular insights regarding the underlying basis of their bioactivity. In particular, a large set of 347 and 175 NAIs against influenza A and B, respectively, was compiled from the literature. Molecular and quantum chemical descriptors were obtained from low-energy conformational structures geometrically optimized at the B3LYP/6-31G(d) level. The bioactivities of NAIs were classified as active or inactive according to their half maximum inhibitory concentration (IC50) value in which IC50 < 1 \u03bcM and > 10 \u03bcM were defined as active and inactive compounds, respectively. Interpretable decision rules were derived from a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) model established using a set of 13 descriptors via decision tree analysis. Good predictive performance was achieved as deduced from 10-fold cross-validation, in which an accuracy and MCC of 82.46% and 0.649, respectively, were obtained for influenza A NAIs while values of 80.00% and 0.553 were obtained for influenza B NAIs. Both univariate and multivariate analyses revealed the importance of the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital, number of hydrogen bond donors and number of hydrogen bond acceptors in the predictive model of NAIs against influenza A while the number of hydrogen bond acceptors, molecular energy and the energy gap between the highest occupied and lowest unoccupied molecular orbitals were important in the predictive model for influenza B NAIs. Molecular scaffold analysis was performed on both data sets for discriminating important structural features among active and inactive NAIs. Furthermore, molecular docking was employed to investigate the binding modes and their moiety preferences of active NAIs against both influenza A and B neuraminidase. Moreover, novel NAIs with robust binding fitness towards influenza A and B neuraminidase were generated via combinatorial library enumeration and their binding fitness was on par or better than FDA-approved drugs. The results from this study are anticipated to be beneficial for guiding the rational drug design of novel NAIs for treating influenza infections.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1554/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Computational Science'], [u'Center of Data Mining and Biomedical Informatics, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University', u'Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University', u'Center for Research and Innovation, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University']]
[u'Denied and false pregnancies: Opposite settings of a single evolutionary conflict', ['Patrick Sandoz'], u'2016-02-20', u'Aim: A woman in denial of pregnancy is pregnant but remains unaware of her gravid state. In the case of a false pregnancy; the woman is not pregnant but believes she is and presents signs and symptoms of pregnancy. These syndromes correspond to opposite contradictions that were mainly explored separately. Our aim is to explain them by a common and consistent etiology.\nMethod: We explore internal conflicts inherited from the evolutionary transition from solitary animals to social species.\nResults: The solitary and social characters are contradictory. They induce internal conflicts intrinsic to the human condition. At the reproduction level, those conflicts oppose primitive interests (genes transmission) to social identity ones (to become a parent). Both syndromes are described by powerful identity interests in contradiction with the actual physiological state: i) actual pregnancy but unacceptable motherhood (denial), and ii) imperative motherhood in a non-pregnant woman (false pregnancy). The physiological symptoms results from a temporarily adaptive artifice hiding the internal tension and fulfilling simultaneously (but superficially) the incompatible demands.\nConclusion: The proposed model explains clinical observations satisfactorily. It complies with a huge diversity of causative events for the identity tensions involved as reported in literature. The model also elucidates the temporary adaptive character of those psychosomatic dysfunctions. To explain those syndromes in a rational and understandable way will facilitate health professional information, thus favoring the detection and follow-up of cases. The acceptation of their condition by concerned women will also be made easier.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1761/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', "Women's Health"], [u'Institut FEMTO-ST, Universit\xe9 de Bourgogne Franche-Comt\xe9, UMR CNRS 6174']]
[u'Decentralized provenance-aware publishing with nanopublications', ['Tobias Kuhn', 'Christine Chichester', 'Michael Krauthammer', 'Nuria Queralt-Rosinach', 'Ruben Verborgh', 'George Giannakopoulos', 'Axel-Cyrille Ngonga Ngomo', 'Raffaele Viglianti', 'Michel Dumontier'], u'2016-02-19', u'Publication and archival of scientific results is still commonly considered the responsability of classical publishing companies. Classical forms of publishing, however, which center around printed narrative articles, no longer seem well-suited in the digital age. In particular, there exist currently no efficient, reliable, and agreed-upon methods for publishing scientific datasets, which have become increasingly important for science. In this article, we propose to design scientific data publishing as a Web-based bottom-up process, without top-down control of central authorities such as publishing companies. Based on a novel combination of existing concepts and technologies, we present a server network to decentrally store and archive data in the form of nanopublications, an RDF-based format to represent scientific data. We show how this approach allows researchers to publish, retrieve, verify, and recombine datasets of nanopublications in a reliable and trustworthy manner, and we argue that this architecture could be used as a low-level data publication layer to serve the Semantic Web in general. Our evaluation of the current network shows that this system is efficient and reliable.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1760/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computer Networks and Communications', 'Digital Libraries', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Department of Computer Science, VU University Amsterdam', u'Nestle Institute of Health Sciences', u'Yale University School of Medicine, Yale University', u'Department of Experimental and Health Sciences, Universitat Pompeu Fabra', u'Data Science Lab, Ghent University', u'Institute of Informatics and Telecommunications, NCSR Demokritos', u'SciFY Private Not-for-profit Company', u'AKSW Research Group, University of Leipzig', u'University of Maryland', u'Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, Stanford University']]
[u'Influence of onabotulinumtoxin A on testes of the growing rat', ['Randa M. Breikaa', 'Hisham A Mosli', 'Ashraf B. Abdel-Naim'], u'2016-02-19', u'Onabotulinumtoxin A (onabotA) is gaining wide medical use in children. However, little is known about its potential testicular effects. The present study was planned to investigate the influence of its injection on the maturing testicular structures in rats. Immature rats were injected in the peritesticular area by onabotA with three doses of (10, 20 and 40 U/kg) three times in a two-week interval. The effect of these injections on fertility indices (sperm parameters, semen quality and testosterone levels) was examined. In addition, levels of antisperm antibodies and several apoptosis parameters were investigated. DNA content in form of ploidy was compared to control group via flow cytometric analysis. Histopathological examination was carried out to confirm the findings. OnabotA-injected groups showed decreased sperm count and semen quality, while sperm vitality, morphology and testosterone levels were not significantly affected. Furthermore, DNA flow cytometric analysis confirmed delayed sperm maturation. Apoptosis markers were significantly increased by the injections. In conclusion, onabotA use in growing rats adversely affected sperm count and maturation. However, it had no significant effects on sperm morphology or vitality. OnabotA testicular effects are mediated, at least partly, by apoptosis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1759/', ['Pharmacology', 'Urology'], [u'Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, Ain Shams University', u'Department of Urology, Faculty of Medicine, King Abdulaziz University', u'Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Faculty of Pharmacy, King Abdulaziz University']]
[u'Sequencing 16S rRNA gene fragments using the PacBio SMRT DNA sequencing system', ['Patrick D Schloss', 'Matthew L Jenior', 'Charles C. Koumpouras', 'Sarah L Westcott', 'Sarah K Highlander'], u'2016-02-19', u"Over the past 10 years, microbial ecologists have largely abandoned sequencing 16S rRNA genes by the Sanger sequencing method and have instead adopted highly parallelized sequencing platforms. These new platforms, such as 454 and Illumina's MiSeq, have allowed researchers to obtain millions of high quality, but short sequences. The result of the added sequencing depth has been significant improvements in experimental design. The tradeoff has been the decline in the number of full-length reference sequences that are deposited into databases. To overcome this problem, we tested the ability of the PacBio Single Molecule, Real-Time (SMRT) DNA sequencing platform to generate sequence reads from the 16S rRNA gene. We generated sequencing data from the V4, V3-V5, V1-V3, V1-V5, V1-V6, and V1-V9 variable regions from within the 16S rRNA gene using DNA from a synthetic mock community and natural samples collected from human feces, mouse feces, and soil. The mock community allowed us to assess the actual sequencing error rate and how that error rate changed when different curation methods were applied. We developed a simple method based on sequence characteristics and quality scores to reduce the observed error rate for the V1-V9 region from 0.69 to 0.027%. This error rate is comparable to what has been observed for the shorter reads generated by 454 and Illumina's MiSeq sequencing platforms. Although the per base sequencing cost is still significantly more than that of MiSeq, the prospect of supplementing reference databases with full-length sequences from organisms below the limit of detection from the Sanger approach is exciting.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/778/', ['Biodiversity', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan', u'Department of Genomic Medicine, J. Craig Venter Institute']]
[u'Exact pattern matching: Adapting the Boyer-Moore algorithm for DNA searches', ['Jens Allmer'], u'2016-02-19', u'Exact pattern matching aims to locate all occurrences of a pattern in a text. Many algorithms have been proposed, but two algorithms, the Knuth-Morris-Pratt (KMP) and the Boyer-Moore (BM), are most widespread. It is the basis of some approximate string matching algorithms like BLAST, and in many cases it is desirable to locate an exact rather than approximate matches. Although several studies included measures with small alphabets, none of them specifically designed an algorithm to target nucleotide sequences. Since there are also no application programming interfaces available for pattern matching in nucleotide sequences, these two issues were aimed to be resolved. A portion of the Chlamydomonas reinhardtii genome (30 mega bases) was searched with queries ranging from 10 to 2000 nucleotides and an alternating number of matches between one and 25000. The results indicate that the use of two of the algorithms developed in this study is sufficient to efficiently cover the complete search space as presented in the experiment conducted here. Thus the aim of implementing an algorithm specifically targeting pattern matching in nucleotide sequences and making it available to the general public as an advanced programming interface was achieved. All algorithms are freely available at: http://bioinformatics.iyte.edu.tr/supplements/peerj/.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1758/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms'], [u'Molecular Biology and Genetics, Izmir Institute of Technology']]
[u'Reading newspapers on the web with a refined history feature', ['Theodorich Kopetzky'], u'2016-02-18', u'Current web browser offer a history feature. Interestingly, this feature can still be refined. In this paper such a refinement is presented: the history of the seen. With this refinement not only clicked links are considered for the history but also links which only have been displayed to user. This is under the assumption that a link not followed will be less interesting in the future. By making the presentation of such links more inconspicuous, the cognitive burden on the users is reduced. A prototype implementation is shown for news sites, where not following a link the first time usually means that the link will not be followed in the future as well.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1756/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'not affiliated']]
[u'Double blind reviews in software engineering venues: Practicability, promises and perils', ['Moritz Beller', 'Alberto Bacchelli'], u'2016-02-18', u'The peer review process is central to the scientific method, the advancement and spread of research as well as crucial for individual careers. However, the single blind review process currently used in most Software Engineering (SE) venues is susceptible towards apparent and hidden biases, since reviewers know the identity of authors. In this paper, we perform a study on the benefits and costs that are associated with introducing double-blind reviews in SE venues. We surveyed the SE community\u2019s opinion, interviewed experts on double-blind reviewing, and estimated the likelihood of reviewers being able to guess the authors. Our results indicate that double-blind reviewing could be introduced in large SE conferences at lower-than-generally believed costs and that the majority of the SE community is in favor of introducing it.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1757/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Delft University of Technology']]
[u'The impact of test case summaries on bug fixing performance: An empirical investigation', ['Sebastiano Panichella', 'Annibale Panichella', 'Moritz Beller', 'Andy Zaidman', 'Harald C Gall'], u'2016-02-18', u'Automated test generation tools have been widely investigated with the goal of reducing the cost of testing activities. However, generated tests have been shown not to help developers in detecting and finding more bugs even though they reach higher structural coverage compared to manual testing. The main reason is that generated tests are difficult to understand and maintain. Our paper proposes an approach, coined TestScribe, which automatically generates test case summaries of the portion of code exercised by each individual test, thereby improving understandability. We argue that this approach can complement the current techniques around automated unit test generation or search-based techniques designed to generate a possibly minimal set of test cases. In evaluating our approach we found that (1) developers find twice as many bugs, and (2) test case summaries significantly improve the comprehensibility of test cases, which is considered particularly useful by developers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1467/', ['Natural Language and Speech', 'Software Engineering'], [u'University of Zurich', u'Delft University of Technology']]
[u'Daniel Goodman\u2019s empirical approach to Bayesian statistics', ['Tim Gerrodette', 'Eric J Ward', 'Rebecca L Taylor', 'Lisa K Schwartz', 'Tomoharu Eguchi', 'Paul R Wade', 'Gina K Himes Boor'], u'2016-02-18', u'Bayesian statistics, in contrast to classical statistics, uses probability to represent uncertainty about the state of knowledge. Bayesian statistics has often been associated with the idea that knowledge is subjective and that a probability distribution represents a personal degree of belief. Dr. Daniel Goodman considered this viewpoint problematic for issues of public policy. He sought to ground his Bayesian approach in data, and advocated the construction of a prior as an empirical histogram of \u201csimilar\u201d cases. In this way, the posterior distribution that results from a Bayesian analysis combined comparable previous data with case-specific current data, using Bayes\u2019 formula. Goodman championed such a data-based approach, but he acknowledged that it was difficult in practice. If based on a true representation of our knowledge and uncertainty, Goodman argued that risk assessment and decision-making could be an exact science, despite the uncertainties. In his view, Bayesian statistics is a critical component of this science because a Bayesian analysis produces the probabilities of future outcomes. Indeed, Goodman maintained that the Bayesian machinery, following the rules of conditional probability, offered the best legitimate inference from available data. We give an example of an informative prior in a recent study of Steller sea lion spatial use patterns in Alaska.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1755/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Southwest Fisheries Science Center, NOAA Fisheries', u'Northwest Fisheries Science Center, NOAA Fisheries', u'Alaska Science Center, U.S. Geological Survey', u'Institute of Marine Sciences, University of California at Santa Cruz', u'Alaska Fisheries Science Center, NOAA Fisheries', u'Ecology Department, Montana State University']]
[u'Aging and serum MCP-1 are associated with gut microbiome composition in a murine model', ['Melissa N. Conley', 'Carmen P. Wong', 'Kyle M. Duyck', 'Norman Hord', 'Emily Ho', 'Thomas J. Sharpton'], u'2016-02-18', u'Introduction Age is the primary risk factor for major human chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disorders, cancer, type 2 diabetes, and neurodegenerative diseases. Chronic, low-grade, systemic inflammation is associated with aging and the progression of immunosenescence. Immunosenescence may play an important role in the development of age-related chronic disease and the widely observed phenomenon of increased production of inflammatory mediators that accompany this process, referred to as \u201cinflammaging\u201d. While it has been demonstrated that the gut microbiome and immune system interact, the relationship between the gut microbiome and age remains to be clearly defined, particularly in the context of inflammation. The aim of the study was to clarify the associations between age, the gut microbiome, and pro-inflammatory marker serum MCP-1 in a C57BL/6 murine model. Results We used 16S rRNA gene sequencing to profile the composition of fecal microbiota associated with young and aged mice. Our analysis identified an association between microbiome structure and mouse age, and revealed specific groups of taxa whose abundances stratify young and aged mice. This includes the Ruminococcaceae, Clostridiaceae, and Enterobacteriaceae. We also profiled pro-inflammatory serum MCP-1 levels of each mouse and found that aged mice exhibited elevated serum MCP-1, a phenotype consistent with inflammaging. Robust correlation tests identified several taxa whose abundance in the microbiome associates with serum MCP-1 status, indicating that they may interact with the mouse immune system. We find that taxonomically similar organisms can exhibit differing, even opposite, patterns of association with the host immune system. We also find that many of the OTUs that associate with serum MCP-1 also stratify individuals by age. Discussion Our results demonstrate that gut microbiome composition is associated with age and the pro-inflammatory marker, serum MCP-1. The correlation between age, relative abundance of specific taxa in the gut microbiome, and serum MCP-1 status in mice indicates that the gut microbiome may play a modulating role in age-related inflammatory processes. These findings warrant further investigation of taxa associated with the inflammaging phenotype and the role of gut microbiome in the health status and immune function of aged individuals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1754/', ['Computational Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Geriatrics', 'Immunology'], [u'School of Biological and Population Health Sciences, Oregon State University', u'Center for Health Aging Research, Oregon State University', u'Department of Microbiology, Oregon State University', u'Linus Pauling Institute, Oregon State University', u'Moore Family Center for Whole Grain Foods, Nutrition and Preventive Health, Oregon State University', u'Department of Statistics, Oregon State University']]
[u'Coral reproduction in Western Australia', ['James Gilmour', 'Conrad W Speed', 'Russ Babcock'], u'2016-02-18', u'Larval production and recruitment underpin the maintenance of coral populations, but these early life history stages are vulnerable to extreme variation in physical conditions. Environmental managers aim to minimise human impacts during significant periods of larval production and recruitment on reefs, but doing so requires knowledge of the modes and timing of coral reproduction. Most corals are hermaphroditic or gonochoric, with a brooding or broadcast spawning mode of reproduction. Brooding corals are a significant component of some reefs and produce larvae over consecutive months. Broadcast spawning corals are more common and display considerable variation in their patterns of spawning among reefs. Highly synchronous spawning can occur on reefs around Australia, particularly on the Great Barrier Reef. On Australia\u2019s remote north-west coast there have been fewer studies of coral reproduction. The recent industrial expansion into these regions has facilitated research, but the associated data are often contained within confidential reports. Here we combine information in this grey-literature with that available publicly to update our knowledge of coral reproduction in WA, for tens of thousands of corals and hundreds of species from over a dozen reefs spanning 20 degrees of latitude. We identified broad patterns in coral reproduction, but more detailed insights were hindered by biased sampling; most studies focused on species of Acropora sampled over a few months at several reefs. Within the existing data, there was a latitudinal gradient in spawning activity among seasons, with mass spawning during autumn occurring on all reefs (but the temperate south-west). Participation in a smaller, multi-specific spawning during spring decreased from approximately one quarter of corals on the Kimberley Oceanic reefs to little participation at Ningaloo. Within these seasons, spawning was concentrated in March and/or April, and October and/or November, depending on the timing of the full moon. The timing of the full moon determined whether spawning was split over two months, which was common on tropical reefs. There were few data available for non-Acropora corals, which may have different patterns of reproduction. For example, the massive Porites seemed to spawn through spring to autumn on Kimberley Oceanic reefs and during summer in the Pilbara region, where other common corals (e.g. Turbinaria & Pavona) also displayed different patterns of reproduction to the Acropora. The brooding corals (Isopora & Seriatopora) on Kimberley Oceanic reefs appeared to planulate during many months, possibly with peaks from spring to autumn; a similar pattern is likely on other WA reefs. Gaps in knowledge were also due to the difficulty in identifying species and issues with methodology. We briefly discuss some of these issues and suggest an approach to quantifying variation in reproductive output throughout a year.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1462/', ['Marine Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'The UWA Oceans Institute, Australian Institute of Marine Science', u'Western Australian Marine Science Institution', u'Marine and Atmospheric Research, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation']]
[u'Selection of reference genes for RT-qPCR studies in blood of beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas)', ['I-Hua Chen', 'Jiann-Hsiung Wang', 'Shih-Jen Chou', 'Yeong-Huey Wu', 'Tsung-Hsien Li', 'Ming-Yih Leu', 'Wen-Been Chang', 'Wei Cheng Yang'], u'2016-02-18', u'Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) is used for research in gene expression, and it is vital to choose appropriate housekeeping genes (HKGs) as reference genes to obtain correct result. The purpose of this study is to determine stably expressed HKGs in blood of beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) that can be the appropriate reference genes in relative quantification in gene expression research. Sixty blood samples were taken from 4 beluga whales. Thirteen candidate HKGs (ACTB, B2M, GAPDH, HPRT1, LDHB, PGK1, RPL4, RPL8, RPL18, RPS9, RPS18, TFRC, YWHAZ) were tested using RT-qPCR. The stability values of the HKGs were determined by four different algorithms. Comprehensive analysis of the results revealed that RPL4, PGK1 and ACTB are strongly recommended for use in future RT-qPCR studies in beluga blood samples. This research provides recommendation of reference gene selection, which may contribute to further mRNA relative quantification research in the peripheral blood leukocytes in captive cetaceans. The gene expression assessment of the immune components in blood have potential to serve as important approach to evaluating cetacean health influenced by environmental insults.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1753/', ['Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Veterinary Medicine, National Chiayi University', u'Department of Biology, National Museum of Marine Biology and Aquarium', u'Graduate Institute of Marine Biology, National Dong Hwa University']]
[u'Species presence frequency and diversity in different patch types along an altitudinal gradient: Larix chinensis Beissn in Qinling Mountains (China)', ['Minyi Huang', 'Renyan Duan', 'Shixiong Wang', 'Zhigao Wang', 'Weiyi Fan'], u'2016-02-17', u'Forest communities are mosaic systems composed of patches classified into four different developmental patch types: gap patch (G), building patch (B), mature patch (M) and degenerate patch (D). To study the mechanisms maintaining diversity in subalpine coniferous forests, species presence frequency and diversity in the four distinct patch types (G, B, M and D) of Larix chinensis conifer forests at three altitudinal gradients in the Qinling Mountains were analyzed. Our results were as follows: (1) Different species (or functional groups) had distinct presence frequencie s in the four different patch types along the altitudinal gradient. (2) Some species or functional groups (species groups sharing similar traits and response to environment) only occurred in some specific patches. For seed dispersal, species using wind mainly occurred in G and D, while species using small animals mainly occurred in B and M. (3) Species composition of adjacent patch types was more similar than non-adjacent patch types, based on the lower \u03b2 diversity index of the former. (4) The maximum numbers of species and two diversity indices (D\u2032 and H\u2032) were found in the middle altitudes. Various gap-forming processes and dispersal limitation may be the two major mechanisms determining species diversity in Larix chinensis coniferous forests at the patch scale.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1752/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'College of Life Sciences, Anqing Normal University', u'College of Life Sciences, Shaanxi Normal University', u'School of Biological and Food Engineering, Suzhou University']]
[u'Flower diversity and bee reproduction in an arid ecosystem', ['Jimena Dorado', 'Diego P. Vazquez'], u'2016-02-16', u'Background. Diverse flower communities are more stable in floral resource production along the flowering season, but the question about how the diversity and stability of resources affect pollinator reproduction remains open. High plant diversity could favor short foraging trips, which in turn would enhance bee fitness. In addition to plant diversity, greater temporal stability of floral resources in diverse communities could favor pollinator fitness because such communities are likely to occupy the phenological space more broadly, increasing floral availability for pollinators throughout the season. In addition, this potential effect of flower diversity on bee reproduction could be stronger for generalist pollinators because they can use a broader floral spectrum. Based on above arguments we predicted that pollinator reproduction would be positively correlated to flower diversity, and to temporal stability in flower production, and that this relationship would be stronger for the most generalized pollinator species. Materials & Methods. Using structural equation models, we evaluated the effect of these variables and other ecological factors on three estimates of bee reproduction, and whether such effects were modulated by bee generalization on floral resources. Results. Contrary to our expectations, flower diversity had no effect on bee reproduction, stability in flower production had a weakly negative effect on one of the bee reproductive variables, and the strength of the fitness-diversity relationship was unrelated to bee generalization. In contrast, elevation had a weak, non significant negative effect on bee reproduction, despite the narrow elevation range encompassed by our sites. Discussion. Flower diversity did not affect the reproduction of the solitary bees studied here. Although high temporal stability in flower production is expected to enhance pollinator reproduction, in our study it had a weakly negative---instead of positive---effect on the average number of brood cells per nest. Other environmental factors that vary with elevation could influence bee reproduction. Our study focused on a small group of closely-related bee species, which cautions against generalization of our findings to other groups of pollinators. More studies are clearly needed to assess the extent to which pollinator demography is influenced by the diversity of floral resources.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1751/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Instituto Argentino de Investigaciones de Zonas Aridas (IADIZA), Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cient\xedficas y T\xe9cnicas', u'Instituto de Ciencias B\xe1sicas, Universidad Nacional de Cuyo']]
[u'Potential for primary poisoning of a critically endangered endemic land bird during rodent eradication operations at Gough Island, Tristan da Cunha', ['Alexander L Bond', 'Michelle M Risi', 'Christopher W Jones', 'Peter G Ryan'], u'2016-02-16', u'Eradicating introduced rodents from islands restores these communities, but operations must mitigate bait uptake by non-target species to ensure adequate bait coverage, and minimize mortality of non-target species. Ingestion of toxic bait is a recognised risk for scavenging birds, but is also a concern for generalist feeders. Gough Island, Tristan da Cunha, in the South Atlantic Ocean, has introduced house mice (Mus musculus) that negatively affect the island ecosystem. It is also home to the endemic globally threatened Gough bunting (Rowettia goughensis), a generalist that may be affected by primary poisoning. We presented 26 wild individuals with non-toxic bait pellets and observed their reactions for up to 30 min, or until they flew away. While 23% of Gough buntings did not react to bait pellets, 77% showed some level of interest. Generalist feeders, such as Gough bunting, may also be at risk of primary poisoning during rodent eradication operations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1744/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Toxicology', 'Zoology'], [u'Centre for Conservation Science, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds', u'Percy FitzPatrick Institute of African Ornithology, DST/NRF Centre of Excellence, University of Cape Town']]
[u'Crystal structure of the 3C protease from South African Territories type 2 foot-and-mouth disease virus', ['Jingjie Yang', 'Eoin N Leen', 'Francois F Maree', 'Stephen Curry'], u'2016-02-16', u'The replication of foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is dependent on the virus-encoded 3C protease (3Cpro). As in other picornaviruses, 3Cpro performs most of the proteolytic processing of the polyprotein expressed from the single open reading frame in the RNA genome of the virus. Previous work revealed that the 3Cpro from serotype A \u2013one of the seven serotypes of FMDV \u2013 adopts a trypsin-like fold. Phylogenetically the FMDV serotypes are grouped into two clusters, with O, A, C, and Asia 1 in one, and the three South African Territories serotypes, (SAT-1, SAT-2 and SAT-3) in another. We report here the cloning, expression and purification of 3C proteases from four SAT serotype viruses (SAT2/GHA/8/91, SAT1/NIG/5/81, SAT1/UGA/1/97, and SAT2/ZIM/7/83) and the crystal structure at 3.2\xc5 resolution of 3Cpro from SAT2/GHA/8/91).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1750/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Life Sciences, Imperial College', u'Transboundary Animal Disease Programme, Agricultural Research Council, Onderstepoort Veterinary Institute']]
[u'FLIP: an Internet protocol for flat labels', ['Giovanni Bembo'], u'2016-02-16', u'In recent years the increasingly frequent use of the Web service, the advent of the cloud computing, the exponential growing of mobile devices with the introduction of pervasive and ubiquitous computing and the emergence of extreme distributed systems have brought to light the problem of the no longer adequate distribution of data packets over Internet and the related IP protocol issues. This paper promotes flat labels as a real alternative to IP addresses for a future Internet architecture and proposes FLIP as first network layer protocol for flat labels. Among several features absolutely not existing in IP protocol, FLIP has a native support for crypto-currencies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1749/', ['Computer Networks and Communications', 'Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing'], [u'Dipartimento di Informatica, Sistemi e Produzione, University of Roma "Tor Vergata"']]
[u'Computational inference of H3K4me3 and H3K27ac domain length', ['Julian Zubek', 'Michael L Stitzel', 'Duygu Ucar', 'Dariusz M Plewczynski'], u'2016-02-16', u'Background. Recent epigenomic studies have shown that the length of a DNA region covered by an epigenetic mark is not just a byproduct of the assaying technologies and has functional implications for that locus. For example, expanded regions of DNA sequences that are marked by enhancer-specific histone modifications, such as acetylation of histone H3 lysine 27 (H3K27ac) domains coincide with cell-specific enhancers, known as super or stretch enhancers. Similarly, promoters of genes critical for cell-specific functions are marked by expanded H3K4me3 domains in the cognate cell type, and these can span DNA regions from 4-5kb up to 40-50kb in length. These expanded H3K4me3 domains are known as buffer domains or super promoters. Methods. To ask what correlates with\u2014and potentially regulates\u2014the length of loci marked with these two important histone marks, H3K4me3 and H3K27ac, we built Random Forest regression models. With these models we computationally identified genomic and epigenomic patterns that are predictive for the length of these marks in seven ENCODE cell lines. Results. We found that certain epigenetic marks and transcription factors explain the variability of the length of H3K4me3 and H3K27ac marks across different cell types, which implies that the lengths of these two epigenetic marks are tightly regulated in a given cell type. Our source code for the regression models and data can be found at our GitHub page: https://github.com/zubekj/broad_peaks Discussion. Our Random Forest based regression models enabled us to estimate the individual contribution of different epigenetic marks and protein binding patterns to the length of H3K4me3 and H3K27ac deposition patterns; therefore potentially revealing genomic signatures at cell specific regulatory elements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1748/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics'], [u'Centre of New Technologies, University of Warsaw', u'Institute of Computer Science', u'Institute for Systems Genomics, Univeristy of Connecticut, The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine', u'The Jackson Laboratory for Genomic Medicine']]
[u'Retrospective study of the effectiveness of four different treatments of equine cheek teeth periodontal disease', ['Kirsten Jackson', 'Lukas M. Weber', 'Marc Tennant'], u'2016-02-16', u'Reasons for performing the study. Equine cheek teeth periodontal disease is a common, often painful dental condition that may lead to premature tooth loss if left untreated. All cases of periodontal disease in this study were associated with diastemata, with the majority of cases being secondary or senile diastemata. At present limited objective information is available comparing different treatment methods for the condition to assist clinicians in making evidence-based treatment decisions.  Objectives. To compare the effectiveness of four commonly used treatments for equine periodontal disease (additional to routine dental treatment and equilibration) to assess their merit in reducing periodontal pocket depth.  Study design. Retrospective case series.  Methods. Four commonly used equine periodontal treatments were compared: Removing feed material and lavaging the periodontal pocket with dilute chlorhexidine and rinsing the mouth with chlorhexidine based mouthwash (\u2018Hexarinse\u2019), \u2018clean and antiseptic lavage\u2019 (CL); CL plus the addition of metronidazole antibiotics into the periodontal pockets (M); M plus the addition of a polyvinyl siloxane temporary filling over the diastema (PVS); and diastema widening to open the diastema and increase the interdental space between adjacent teeth, then PVS (DW). Periodontal pocket depth measurements were compared before and after treatment at treatment intervals between two and six months. Results. Treatment groups CL, M and PVS showed statistically significant reductions in pocket depth following treatment. Mean pocket depth reduction was greatest in the DW group (and this was the only group with no cases involving an increase in pocket depth), but this was based on a small sample size and was not statistically significant. Additional analysis to compare effectiveness revealed a strong confounding effect of initial pocket depth. After taking this into account, there was some evidence that DW was associated with smaller improvements than the other treatments, however this result was also based on a small sample size, and influenced by a small number of cases with particularly large improvements. Among the other treatments, no statistically significant differences in effectiveness were found.  Conclusion. This study has shown that treatment methods CL, M and PVS are associated with statistically significant reductions in pocket depth. Due to the confounding effect of initial pocket depth, no clear differences in effectiveness were found between treatment methods.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/703/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Dentistry'], [u'International Research Collaborative \u2013 Oral Health and Equity, Department of Anatomy, Physiology and Human Biology, University of Western Australia', u'Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich']]
[u'Reproducibility of cardiorespiratory and performance responses to exercise in hypoxia', ['Ben J Lee', 'Charles D Thake'], u'2016-02-15', u'Background. Knowledge of the variance in physiological performance measures between repeated trials can inform whether familiarization sessions are necessary prior to intervention studies. The purpose of this study was to assess the reliability of cardiorespiratory and exercise performance measures during both steady state hypoxic exercise and a preloaded 16.1 km hypoxic time trial. Methods. Eighteen male participants (age, 22 \xb1 4 years; height, 1.77 \xb1 0.04 meters; body mass, 76.8 kg; estimated body fat and VO2peak = 3.50 \xb1 0.60 L.min-1) were divided into three groups. Reliability of responses (HR, SPO2 , VO2 , VCO2 , VE and respiratory exchange ratio; RER) to the HST (FIO2 0.14; 15 minutes rest, 60 minutes cycling at 50% normoxic VO2peak) was assessed across 3 repeat trials (HST 1, 2 and 3, n = 6). Reliability of the preloaded time trial (pTT; 15 min rest, 40 minutes cycling at 50% normoxic VO2peak, 16.1km time trial) was assessed across 3 repeat normoxic (N; FIO2 \u2248 0.21; n=6) and 3 repeat hypoxic (FIO2 \u2248 0.14; n = 6) trials. All exercise trials were undertaken at the same time of day, following exercise and dietary controls, 7 days apart. Results. Intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC\u2019s) for mean and peak HR, SpO2 , VE , VO2 , VCO2 and blood lactate within each trial were improved from HST1 to HST2 (mean data: 0.99, 0.95, 0.75, 0.62, 0.70, 0.90; peak data: 0.98, 0.96, 0.64, 0.69, 0.74, 0.75) to HST2 and HST3 (ICC = 0.99, 0.97, 0.82, 0.85, 0.87 and 0.96 respectively). The reliability for time to pTT completion was improved following one trial, and the CV (test 2 vs. 3) was similar under normoxic (CV = 0.62) and hypoxic conditions (CV = 0.63). Conclusion. Cardiorespiratory responses to the HST were reproducible and the pTT performance time reliable in both normoxia and hypoxia. Since the reproducibility of the measurements in HST trials and reliability of pTT improved between the second and third trials, two familiarization visit are recommended prior to employing these protocols in future studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1513/', ['Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Department for Health, University of Bath', u'Centre for Applied Biological and Exercise Sciences, Coventry University']]
[u'Physiological stress associated with physical trauma during transportation of the Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus', ['Adam Powell', 'Daniel M Cowing', 'Susanne P Eriksson', 'Magnus L Johnson'], u'2016-02-15', u'The Norway lobster, Nephrops norvegicus is a valuable European decapod, particularly when sold live, although along the supply chain lobsters experience a range of extreme stressors during and immediately after capture, and onward transportation. To improve quality and quantity of live product, laboratory experiments and transport simulations have investigated the effect of stress, particularly emersion and temperature, on physiology and the immune system, typically via blood (haemolymph) assays. This study investigated a relatively neglected stressor, physical trauma during transport (i.e. prolonged vibrations) via a simulated transport experiment, following anecdotal evidence that additional cushioning reduced post-transport mortality of N. norvegicus by up to ca. 20%. Baseline (BS) lobsters were sampled shortly after creel capture, and subsamples emersed for 1h, with additional experimental shaking (ES) or as immobile controls (EM). Both emersed treatments showed increased THC and serum glucose, lactate and ammonium, although serum protein and refractive index did not change significantly. Compared to the EM treatment, ES lobsters had significant increases in serum ammonium and glucose. In addition to emersion stress, physical trauma during transport is confirmed as an additional stressor that needs to be considered in transport simulations, whilst straightforward and cheap mitigation of physical trauma (e.g. road vibrations) could improve welfare, survival and recovery.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1747/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Centre for Sustainable Aquatic Research, College of Science, Swansea University', u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences - Kristineberg, University of Gothenburg', u'Centre for Environmental and Marine Sciences, University of Hull']]
[u'Connecting laboratory behavior to field function through stable isotope analysis', ['Mael G Glon', 'Eric R Larson', 'Kevin L Pangle'], u'2016-02-15', u'Inherent difficulties of tracking and observing organisms in the field often leave researchers with no choice but to conduct behavioral experiments under laboratory settings. However, results of laboratory experiments do not always translate accurately to natural conditions. A fundamental challenge in ecology is therefore to scale up from small area and short-duration laboratory experiments to large areas and long-durations over which ecological processes generally operate. In this study, we propose that stable isotope analysis may be a tool that can link laboratory behavioral observations to past field interactions or function of individual organisms. We conducted laboratory behavioral assays to measure dominance of invasive rusty crayfish, Orconectes rusticus, and used stable isotope analysis to hindcast trophic positions of these crayfish under preceding natural conditions. We hypothesized that more dominant crayfish in our assays would have higher trophic positions if dominance were related to competitive ability or willingness to pursue high-risk, high-reward prey. We did not find a relationship between crayfish dominance and trophic position, and therefore infer that laboratory dominance of crayfish may not necessarily relate to their ecology in the field. However, this is to our knowledge the first attempt to directly relate laboratory behavior to field performance via stable isotope analysis. We encourage future studies to continue to explore a possible link between laboratory and field behavior via stable isotope analysis, and propose several avenues to do so.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1746/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Biology, Central Michigan University', u'Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Sciences, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign']]
[u'Deep-sea megafaunal response to physical disturbance along the SW Portuguese continental slope', ['Sofia P Ramalho', 'Lidia Lins', 'Nikolaos Lampadariou', 'Ann Vanreusel', 'Marina R Cunha'], u'2016-02-15', u'Continental slopes support highly diverse ecosystems strongly influenced by habitat heterogeneity and increasing anthropogenic disturbance, of which bottom trawling fisheries are considered of major importance. Recent studies showed that megafauna assemblages are particularly sensitive to trawling disturbance in hard substrate habitats (e.g. seamounts) but impacts on soft sediments are mostly unknown. Video surveys obtained by Remotely Operated Vehicle (ROV) were used to investigate megafaunal structural and functional diversity in areas subjected to different degrees of disturbance (no, low, medium and high trawl intensity) covering different soft sediment habitats (muddy-sand and sandy bottoms) along the SW Portuguese continental slope. In total, 17 km of video transects were analysed within a bathymetric range of 200m and 700m water depths. All disturbed areas displayed frequent and recent trawl marks (up to 3 marks per 100m), with general flattened seafloor topography and low bioturbation. Additional scattered litter presence was observed. Megafauna abundances were highly variable among habitats, revealing more than 80 morphospecies, belonging to 17 classes. Overall, communities from muddy-sand habitats presented higher species richness in undisturbed locations, where sessile groups such as sponges (Porifera) and soft corals (e.g. Pennatulacea) were predominantly found. In contrast, sandy locations subjected to disturbance showed lower diversity and high abundances of the dominant polychaete Hyalinoecia tubicula. The use of several biological traits (e.g. mobility, living habit, feeding type) will be discussed in relation to the community composition and structural diversity among the different habitats and disturbance pressures to better understand on the vulnerability of the continental slope benthic habitats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1745/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Departamento de Biologia & CESAM, Universidade de Aveiro', u'Marine Biology Research Group, Universiteit Gent', u'Hellenic Centre for Marine Research']]
[u'Detecting periodicities with Gaussian processes', ['Nicolas Durrande', 'James Hensman', 'Magnus Rattray', 'Neil D Lawrence'], u'2016-02-15', u'We consider the problem of detecting and quantifying the periodic component of a function given noise-corrupted observations of a limited number of input/output tuples. Our approach is based on Gaussian process regression which provides a flexible non-parametric framework for modelling periodic data. We introduce a novel decomposition of the covariance function as the sum of periodic and aperiodic kernels. This decomposition allows for the creation of sub-models which capture the periodic nature of the signal and its complement. To quantify the periodicity of the signal, we derive a periodicity ratio which reflects the uncertainty in the fitted sub-models. Although the method can be applied to many kernels, we give a special emphasis to the Mat\xe9rn family, from the expression of the reproducing kernel Hilbert space inner product to the implementation of the associated periodic kernels in a Gaussian process toolkit. The proposed method is illustrated by considering the detection of periodically expressed genes in the arabidopsis genome.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1743/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Optimization Theory and Computation'], [u'Institut Fayol - LIMOS, Mines Saint-\xc9tienne', u'CHICAS, Faculty of Health and Medicine, Lancaster University', u'Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester', u'Department of Computer Science and Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience, University of Sheffield']]
[u'Epithelial, metabolic and innate immunity transcriptomic signatures differentiating the rumen from other sheep and mammalian gastrointestinal tract tissues', ['Ruidong Xiang', 'Victor Hutton Oddy', 'Alan L. Archibald', 'Phillip E. Vercoe', 'Brian P. Dalrymple'], u'2016-02-12', u'Background. Ruminants are successful herbivorous mammals, in part due to their specialized forestomachs, the rumen complex, which facilitates the conversion of feed to soluble nutrients by micro-organisms. Is the rumen complex a modified stomach expressing new epithelial (cornification) and metabolic programs, or a specialised stratified epithelium that has acquired new metabolic activities, potentially similar to those of the colon? How has the presence of the rumen affected other sections of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) of ruminants compared to non-ruminants? Methods. Transcriptome data from 11 tissues covering the sheep GIT, two stratified epithelial and two control tissues, was analysed using principal components to cluster tissues based on gene expression profile similarity. Expression profiles of genes along the sheep GIT were used to generate a network to identify genes enriched for expression in different compartments of the GIT. The data from sheep was compared to similar data sets from two non-ruminants, pigs (closely related) and humans (more distantly related). Results. The rumen transcriptome clustered with the skin and tonsil, but not the GIT transcriptomes, driven by genes from the epidermal differentiation complex, and genes encoding stratified epithelium keratins and innate immunity proteins. By analysing all of the gene expression profiles across tissues together 16 major clusters were identified. The strongest of these, and consistent with the high turnover rate of the GIT, showed a marked enrichment of cell cycle process genes (P=1.4E-46), across the whole GIT, relative to liver and muscle, with highest expression in the caecum followed by colon and rumen. The expression patterns of several membrane transporters (chloride, zinc, nucleosides, amino acids, fatty acids, cholesterol and bile acids) along the GIT was very similar in sheep, pig and humans. In contrast, short chain fatty acid uptake and metabolism appeared to be different between the species and different between the rumen and colon in sheep. The importance of nitrogen and iodine recycling in sheep was highlighted by the highly preferential expression of SLC14A1-urea (rumen), RHBG-ammonia (intestines) and SLC5A5-iodine (abomasum). The gene encoding a poorly characterized member of the maltase-glucoamylase family (MGAM2), predicted to play a role in the degradation of starch or glycogen, was highly expressed in the small and large intestines. Discussion. The rumen appears to be a specialised stratified cornified epithelium, probably derived from the oesophagus, which has gained some liver-like and other specialized metabolic functions, but probably not by expression of pre-existing colon metabolic programs. Changes in gene transcription downstream of the rumen also appear have occurred as a consequence of the evolution of the rumen and its effect on nutrient composition flowing down the GIT.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1742/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Genomic Technologies, CSIRO Agriculture', u'NSW Department of Primary Industries,Beef Industry Centre, University of New England', u'The Roslin Institute and Royal (Dick) School of Veterinary Studies, University of Edinburgh', u'School of Animal Biology and Institute of Agriculture, The University of Western Australia']]
[u'Open access as a mechanism of revolutionary science and the limitations of data', ['Costa Vakalopoulos'], u'2016-02-12', u'Data is the cornerstone of the modern academic industry, like a constant production line of consumable goods packaged with a veneer of statistical techniques. Biomedical and psychological sciences invert the traditional logic of the physical sciences where hypotheses were tested against data rather than data against hypotheses. This is likely to reflect the immaturity of the new paradigms that barely cope with the data output of a precocious enterprise. However, the current state leads to distortions of the practice of science and entrenchment of its dysfunctional politics reflected in the science itself. With the debate now on the reproduction of data and statistical sleights of hand accompanying many if not most studies, what is lost in the debate is the preeminent role of good theoretical discovery. This is partly as a result of the structure of funding, the nature of reporting in biomedical fields based on the symbiotic relationship of high ranking institutions and journals. Open access could fill a gap in traditional publishing literature which has entrenched a culture of highly restrictive practices at a time when revolutionary science is required. OA is not in danger of lowering the standards of science as its critics claim as the studies on non replication show that they do not discriminate against OA papers specifically. Because it is \u2018open\u2019 to new and radical ideas that would never see the light of day otherwise, it may well provide a rejuvenating energy. OA is a self-regulatory response to the consequences of the distorted and inhibitory contemporary practice of science as the popularity of OA journals testify to.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1655/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Monash University']]
[u'PhilDB: The time series database with built-in change logging', ['Andrew MacDonald'], u'2016-02-12', u"PhilDB is an open-source time series database that supports storage of time series datasets that are dynamic, that is it records updates to existing values in a log as they occur. PhilDB eases loading of data for the user by utilising an intelligent data write method. It preserves existing values during updates and abstracts the update complexity required to achieve logging of data value changes. It implements fast reads to make it practical to select data for analysis. Recent open-source systems have been developed to indefinitely store long-period high-resolution time series data without change logging. Unfortunately such systems generally require a large initial installation investment before use because they are designed to operate over a cluster of servers to achieve high-performance writing of static data in real time. In essence, they have a 'big data' approach to storage and access. Other open-source projects for handling time series data that avoid the 'big data' approach are also relatively new and are complex or incomplete. None of these systems gracefully handle revision of existing data while tracking values that changed. Unlike 'big data' solutions, PhilDB has been designed for single machine deployment on commodity hardware, reducing the barrier to deployment. PhilDB takes a unique approach to meta-data tracking; optional attribute attachment. This facilitates scaling the complexities of storing a wide variety of data. That is, it allows time series data to be loaded as time series instances with minimal initial meta-data, yet additional attributes can be created and attached to differentiate the time series instances when a wider variety of data is needed. PhilDB was written in Python, leveraging existing libraries. While some existing systems come close to meeting the needs PhilDB addresses, none cover all the needs at once. PhilDB was written to fill this gap in existing solutions. This paper explores existing time series database solutions, discusses the motivation for PhilDB, describes the architecture and philosophy of the PhilDB software, and performs a simple evaluation between InfluxDB, PhilDB, and SciDB.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1488/', ['Data Science', 'Databases'], [u'Not affiliated']]
[u'Functional analysis of the COBRA-like family', ['Nadav Sorek', 'Andrew Ryan', 'Andrew Carroll', 'Chris Somerville'], u'2016-02-10', u'The COBRA protein is found only in higher plants and algae, and has been implicated in cellulose synthesis, but its specific function remains unknown. To shed light on COBRA function we tested the ability of putative Arabidopsis COBRA orthologs to complement mutations in the COBRA gene. We expanded the previously published phylogenetic analysis and found that COBRA genes can be grouped into five clades. Representative COBRA genes from the different clades were expressed in a cobra mutant background. Surprisingly, none of the COBRA-LIKE genes was able to complement cobra, including the closest homolog which we found to bind cellulose with the same avidity as COBRA. We hypothesize that the lack of ability of the COBRA-LIKE genes to complement the cobra mutant is due to an unidentified binding interaction that is sensitive to the structure of the COBRA-LIKE proteins. However, membrane-based yeast two hybrid assays failed to identify positive interactors for COBRA.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1740/', ['Plant Science'], [u'Plant and Microbial Biology Department, University of California, Berkeley', u'Energy Biosciences Institute, University of California, Berkeley', u'Division of Biological Sciences, University of California, San Diego', u'DNAnexus']]
[u'Developing and evaluating tools to assess the impact of chimpanzee sanctuaries via a unique zoo-sanctuary partnership', ['Bethany K Hansen', 'Stephen R Ross', 'Lydia M Hopper', 'Amy Fultz'], u'2016-02-10', u'Sanctuaries are crucial to the survival and welfare of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes).  They also play an important role in educating the public about chimpanzee behavior and conservation. However, as many sanctuaries lack the capacity to collect long-term data, there is no standardized protocol for evaluating these aims. To address this, the Lincoln Park Zoo, USA, has partnered with Chimp Haven, Inc., USA. Chimp Haven houses nearly 200 chimpanzees in several enclosure types including traditional indoor-outdoor runs (~20m2 in area), open-top corrals (~300m2), and large forested habitats (up to 24,000m2). By leveraging the expertise from both institutions we will evaluate the aims of the sanctuary considering both the behavior and welfare of the chimpanzees and the impact of the sanctuary\u2019s public education program. To address the first aim, we will use non-invasive focal observations to evaluate whether and how different housing types affect the chimpanzees\u2019 activity budgets, enclosure usage, and social interactions. To inquire about the success of the second aim, we will evaluate education programs at Chimp Haven during which the public can view the chimpanzees. We will investigate whether public viewing opportunities affect the chimpanzees\u2019 behavior through the use of observational data collected on the chimpanzees. Simultaneously, we will evaluate the learning outcomes and attitudes of visitors at Chimp Haven, using questionnaires and observations of visitor behavior. Findings from this research will inform decisions about the care and management of captive chimpanzees. This research will also provide information about how sanctuaries can best engage and educate the public.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1739/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Zoology'], [u'Lester E. Fisher Center for the Study and Conservation of Apes, Lincoln Park Zoo', u'Behavior, Research & Education, Chimp Haven, Inc.']]
[u'Screening for Alternaria brassicicola resistance in the Brassicaceae: Bio-assay optimization and confocal microscopy insights into the infection process', ['Marzena Nowakowska', 'Malgorzata  Wrzesinska', 'Piotr Kaminski', 'Marcin Nowicki', 'Malgorzata  Lichocka', 'Micha  Tartanus', 'Elzbieta U Kozik'], u'2016-02-10', u'Heavy losses incited yearly by Alternaria brassicicola on the vegetable Brassicaceae \u2013 have prompted our search for sources of genetic resistance against the pathogen and the resultant disease, dark leaf spot. We optimized several parameters to test the performance of the plants under controlled conditions to this disease, including leaf age and position, inoculum concentration, and incubation temperature. Using these optimized conditions, we screened a collection of 38 Brassicaceae cultigens with two methods (detached leaf and seedlings). Our results show, that either method can be used for the A. brassicicola resistance breeding, while the plant\u2019s genotype was crucial in determining its response to the pathogen. The laboartory bio-assays for A. brassicicola resistance were run under more stringent conditions than the field tests, and resulted in identification of two interspecific hybrids that might be used in breeding programs. Confocal microscopy analyses of the leaf samples provided data into the pathogen mode of infection: Direct epidermal infection or stomatal attack were related to plants\u2019 resistance against A. brassicicola among the cultigens tested. Further, the actin network of the host cells reorganized around the papillas deposited under the pathogen\u2019s appressorium.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1360/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Cell Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Genetics, Breeding, and Biotechnology of Vegetable Crops, Research Institute of Horticulture', u'Laboratory of Confocal and Fluorescence Microscopy, Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics - Polish Academy of Sciences', u'School of Informatics, State Higher Vocational School in Skierniewice']]
[u'Changes to coral health and metabolic activity under oxygen deprivation', ['James WA Murphy', 'Robert H Richmond'], u'2016-02-10', u'Scleractinian corals play a critical role in tropical marine ecosystems by providing essential structure and food for coral reef inhabitants. However, recent investigations have found an alarming increase in coral losses from a variety of stressors, which threatens the general health and resilience of tropical coastal ecosystems. The effect of oxygen deprivation on the health of Hawaiian corals based on local drivers is of particular concern. On Hawaiian reefs, the fast-growing, invasive algae Gracilaria salicornia overgrows coral heads, restricting water flow and light, thereby smothering corals. Field data shows hypoxic conditions (dissolved oxygen (DO2) < 2 mg/L) occurring underneath algal mats at night, and concurrent bleaching and partial tissue loss of shaded corals. This study evaluates changes in coral health and metabolism through the replication of hypoxic conditions in a laboratory setting in order to limit the contribution of additional environmental variables to health shifts. Analyses of metabolic stress were accomplished through the quantification of lactate dehydrogenase and opine dehydrogenase activities. Through experimentation, treatment corals were observed to exhibit significant increases in alanopine and strombine dehydrogenase activities (ADH and SDH, respectively), but little to no lactate or octopine dehydrogenase activity. These findings indicate that not only is hypoxia a major source of increased coral stress, which occurs in response to invasive algae mat smothering, but provide novel insight into coral metabolic shifts in extremely low-oxygen environments and point to ADH and SDH as possible tools for hypoxia mitigation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1738/', ['Biochemistry', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Kewalo Marine Laboratory, University of Hawaii at Manoa']]
[u'Microgeographic variation in locomotor traits among lizards in a human-built environment', ['Colin Donihue'], u'2016-02-10', u'Microgeographic variation in fitness-relevant traits may be more common than previously appreciated. The fitness of many vertebrates is directly related to their locomotor capacity, a whole-organism trait integrating behavior, morphology, and physiology. Because locomotion is inextricably related to context, I hypothesized that it might vary with habitat structure in a wide-ranging lizard, Podarcis erhardii, found in the Greek Cyclade Islands. I compared lizard populations living on human-built rock walls, a novel habitat with complex vertical structure, with nearby lizard populations that are naive to human-built infrastructure and live in flat, loose-substrate habitat. I tested for differences in morphology, behavior, and performance. Lizards from built sites were larger and had significantly (and relatively) longer forelimbs and hindlimbs. The differences in hindlimb morphology were especially pronounced for distal components \u2013 the foot and longest toe. These morphologies facilitated a significant behavioral shift in jumping propensity across a rocky experimental substrate. I found no difference in maximum velocity between these populations, however females originating from wall sites potentially accelerated faster over the rocky experimental substrate. The variation between these closely neighboring populations suggests that the lizards inhabiting walls have experienced a suite of trait changes enabling them to take advantage of the novel habitat structure created by humans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1737/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Yale University']]
[u'On a general definition of the set of native conformations for globular polypeptides', ['Imadol V Jeff-Eke'], u'2016-02-09', u'Here we question the generality of the conventional definition of a native conformation \u2013as the 3-dimensional conformation of an entire globular polypeptide molecule. Although considered common knowledge, and thus not explicitly stated in modern writings, this definition of native conformations has a history as old as the protein folding problem. We attempt a more applicable definition that better correlates with functional activity and thus may be a more suitable substitute for the current convention.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1735/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Biotechnology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Morehouse School of Medicine, Morehouse School of Medicine']]
[u'At what scales does aggregated dispersal lead to coexistence?', ['Eric J Pedersen', 'Frederic Guichard'], u'2016-02-09', u'Aggregation during dispersal from source to settlement sites can allow persistence of weak competitors, by creating conditions where stronger competitors are more likely to interact with conspecifics than with less competitive heterospecifics. However, different aggregation mechanisms across scales can lead to very different patterns of settlement. Little is known about what ecological conditions are required for this mechanism to work effectively. We derive a metacommunity approximation of aggregated dispersal that shows how three different scales interact to determine competitive outcomes: the spatial scale of aggregation, the spatial scale of interactions between individuals, and the time-scale of arrival rates of aggregations. We use stochastic simulations and a novel metacommunity approximation to show that an inferior competitor can invade only when the superior competitor is aggregated over short spatial scales, and aggregations of new settlers are small and rare.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1734/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, McGill University']]
[u'Gender bias in open source: Pull request acceptance of women versus men', ['Josh Terrell', 'Andrew Kofink', 'Justin Middleton', 'Clarissa Rainear', 'Emerson Murphy-Hill', 'Chris Parnin'], u'2016-02-09', u"Biases against women in the workplace have been documented in a variety of studies. This paper presents the largest study to date on gender bias, where we compare acceptance rates of contributions from men versus women in an open source software community. Surprisingly, our results show that women's contributions tend to be accepted more often than men's. However, when a woman's gender is identifiable, they are rejected more often. Our results suggest that although women on GitHub may be more competent overall, bias against them exists nonetheless.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1733/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Social Computing', 'Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Computer Science, California Polytechnic State University - San Luis Obispo', u'Computer Science, North Carolina State University']]
[u'High non publication rate from publication professionals hinders evidence-based publication practices', ['Luke C Carey', 'Serina Stretton', 'Charlotte A Kenreigh', 'Linda T Wagner', 'Karen L Woolley'], u'2016-02-09', u'Background.  The need for timely, ethical, and high-quality reporting of clinical trial results has seen a rise in demand for publication professionals. These publication experts, who are not ghostwriters, work with leading medical researchers and funders around the world to plan and prepare thousands of publications each year. Despite the involvement of publication professionals in an increasing number of peer-reviewed publications, especially those that affect patient care, there is limited evidence-based guidance in the peer-reviewed literature on their publication practices. Similar to the push for editors and the peer-review community to conduct and publish research on publication ethics and the peer-review process, the International Society for Medical Publication Professionals (ISMPP) has encouraged members to conduct and publish research on publication planning and practices. Our primary objective was to investigate the publication rate of research presented at ISMPP Annual Meetings. Methods.  ISMPP Annual Meeting abstract lists (April 2009 to April 2014) were searched in November 2014 and data were extracted into a pilot-tested spreadsheet. MEDLINE was searched in December 2014 to determine the publication rate (calculated as the % of presented abstracts published as full papers in peer-reviewed journals). Data were analyzed using the Cochran-Armitage trend test (significance: P <.05) by an independent academic statistician. Results.  From 2009 to 2014, there were 220 abstracts submitted, 185 accepted, and 164 presented. There were only four corresponding publications (publication rate 2.4%). Over time, ISMPP\u2019s abstract acceptance rate (overall: 84.1%) did not change, but the number of abstracts presented increased significantly (P = .02). Most abstracts were presented as posters (81.1%) and most research was observational (72.6%). Most researchers came from the US (78.0%), followed by Europe (17.7%), and the Asia-Pacific region (11.2%). Discussion.  Research presented at ISMPP Annual Meetings has rarely been published in peer-reviewed journals. The high-rate of non publication by publication professionals has now been quantified and is of concern. Publication professionals should do more to contribute to evidence\u2011based publication practices, including, and especially, their own. Unless the barriers to publication are identified and addressed, the practices of publication professionals, which affect thousands of peer-reviewed publications each year, will remain hidden and unproven.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1732/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'ProScribe \u2013 Envision Pharma Group', u'Excel \u2013 Envision Pharma Group', u'University of Queensland', u'University of the Sunshine Coast']]
[u'Sympathy for the devil: a conservation strategy for devil and manta rays', ['Julia M Lawson', 'Rachel HL Walls', 'Sonja V Fordham', "Mary P O'Malley", 'Michelle R Heupel', 'Guy Stevens', 'Daniel Fernando', 'Ania Budziak', 'Colin A Simpfendorfer', 'Lindsay NK Davidson', 'Isabel Ender', 'Malcolm P Francis', 'Giuseppe Notarbartolo di Sciara', 'Nicholas K Dulvy'], u'2016-02-09', u'Background. Increased interest in luxury products and Traditional Chinese Medicine, associated with economic growth in China, has been linked to depletion of both terrestrial and marine wildlife. Among the most rapidly emerging concerns with respect to these markets is the relatively new demand for gill plates, or Peng Yu Sai (\u201cFish Gills\u201d), from devil and manta rays (subfamily Mobulinae). The high value of gill plates drives international trade supplied by largely unmonitored and unregulated bycatch and target fisheries around the world. Devil and manta rays are especially sensitive to overexploitation because of their exceptionally low productivity (maximum intrinsic rate of population increase). Scientific research, conservation campaigns, as well as international and national protections that restrict fishing or trade have increased in recent years. Many key protections, however, apply only to manta rays. Methods. We review the state of the development of scientific knowledge and capacity for these species, and summarise the geographic ranges, fisheries and national and international protections for these species. We use a conservation planning approach to develop the Global Devil and Manta Ray Conservation Strategy, specifying a vision, goals, objectives, and actions to advance the conservation of both devil and manta rays. Results and Discussion. Generally, there is greater scientific attention and conservation focused on Manta compared to Devil Rays. We discuss how the successes in manta ray conservation can be expanded to benefit devil rays. We also examine solutions for the two leading threats to both devil and manta rays \u2013 bycatch and target fisheries. First, we examine how can the impact of bycatch fisheries can be reduced through international measures and best-practice handling techniques. Second, we examine the role that responsible trade and demand can play in reducing target fisheries for gill plates. Our paper suggests that given similarities in sensitivity and appearance, particularly of the dried gill plate product, conservation measures may need to be harmonised particularly for the larger species in this subfamily.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1731/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Earth to Ocean Research Group, Department of Biological Sciences, Simon Fraser University', u'Shark Advocates International, The Ocean Foundation', u'WildAid', u'Australian Institute of Marine Science', u'Manta Trust', u'Department of Biology and Environmental Science, Linnaeus University', u'Blue Resources', u'Project AWARE Foundation', u'Centre for Sustainable Tropical Fisheries and Aquaculture & College of Marine and Environmental Sciences, James Cook University of North Queensland', u'Centre for Sustainable Tropical Fisheries and Aquaculture & School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, James Cook University', u'National Institute of Water and Atmospheric Research', u'Tethys Research Institute']]
[u'Chomatin mass from previously aggregated, pyknotic, and fragmented monolayer nuclei is a source for dome cell nuclei generated by amitosis: Differentiation of Ishikawa Domes, Part 3', ['Honoree Fleming'], u'2016-02-09', u'Ishikawa endometrial epithelial cells are capable of differentiation from monolayer cells into fluid-enclosing hemispheres through a surprisingly complex series of structural changes as discussed in this and in two accompanying papers (Fleming, 2016a; Fleming 2016b). The process starts with the dissolution of cell membranes in defined regions throughout a monolayer that has been stimulated to differentiate (Fleming, 1995). Aggregated nuclei become wrapped in membranes containing mitochondrial carboxylases, and apparently generated by contiguous mitochondria. These mitonucleons are involved in vacuole formation that elevates the syncytium into a predome (Fleming, 2015a). The mitonucleons begin to fall apart several hours after formation as the enveloping membranes are breached and the pyknotic chromatin undergoes profound changes (Fleming, 2015b). Chromatin deconstruction, with attendant disappearance of the typical ovoid nuclear structure, results in chromatin fibers that fill the envelope formed by the apical and basal membranes of the syncytium, now stretching over a cavity filling with fluid. In the next several hours, hematoxylin staining, greatly diminished when nuclei were fragmented, reappears in an irregular mass of chromatin out of which nuclei form amitotically and increase in numbers until they fill the envelope. Subsequently cell membranes form around the nuclei. Domes can enlarge and even extend into tubules by becoming vacuolized and undergoing the same amitotic process that created the dome initially.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1730/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology'], [u'Dean of Education,  retired, Castleton State College']]
[u'Pyknotic chromatin in mitonucleons elevating in syncytia undergo karyorhhexis and karyolysis before coalescing into an irregular chromatin mass: Differentiation of Ishikawa Domes, Part 2', ['Honoree Fleming'], u'2016-02-09', u'Pyknosis, karyorrhexis and karyolysis, harbingers of programmed cell death in many systems, appear to be driving forces that transform Ishikawa monolayer epithelial cells into differentiated dome cells. The heterochromatin affected by these process is contained in multiple nuclei aggregated in the syncytia that form when Ishikawa monolayers are stimulated to differentiate (Fleming, 2016a). The nuclear aggregates are enveloped in a double membrane staining for the endogenous biotin in mitochondrial carboxylases. The structure called a mitonucleon becomes vacuolated, along with the heterochromatin it envelops, and this structure elevates with the apical membrane of the syncytium 6 to 8 hours into the 20 hour differentiation, becoming increasingly pyknotic. This phase of the differentiation comes to an end when the mitonucleon membranes are breached and nuclei emerging from the aggregated state can be seen to fragment explosively. Fragmented DNA associates with an array of microtubules, filling the large central clearing of the predome. Some chromatin remains unfragmented and can be seen of the edges of the predome clearing. Cell death does not occur. Instead, the fragmented DNA coalesces into an irregular mass within the apical and basal membranes of the predome under which fluid has been accumulating. From the chromatin sheet, nuclei emerge amitotically as described in Part 3 of this series (Fleming, 2016c).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1729/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology'], [u'Dean of Education, retired, Castleton State College']]
[u'Mitonucleons formed during differentiation of Ishikawa endometrial cells generate vacuoles that elevate monolayer syncytia: Differentiation of Ishikawa domes, Part 1', ['Honoree Fleming'], u'2016-02-09', u'In 1998, we published a paper (Fleming et.al, 1998) describing some aspects of Ishikawa endometrial epithelial cell differentiation from monolayer cells into cells forming fluid-filled hemispheres called domes. The process begins with the dissolution of membranes within discrete regions of the monolayer. Nuclei from fused cells aggregate and endogenous biotin in particulate structures assumed to be mitochondria increase throughout the resulting syncytium. Endogenous biotin is also the distinguishing feature of a membrane that surrounds aggregates of multiple nuclei in a structure called a mitonucleon. The current paper includes additional observations on structural changes accompanying Ishikawa differentiation. Vacuoles form in the heterochromatin of the mitonucleon and within the biotin-containing double membrane surrounding heterochromatin. With the formation of vacuoles, the mitonucleon can be seen to rise along with the apical membrane of the syncytium in which it formed. The small vacuoles that form within the heterochromatin result in structures similar to \u201ccells with optically clear nuclei\u201d found in some cancers. The second larger vacuole that forms within the membrane surrounding the heterochromatin transforms the cell profile to one that resembles \u201csignet ring\u201d cells also observed in some cancers. Eventually the membrane surrounding the massed heterochromatin, generated three to four hours earlier, is breached and previously aggregated nuclei disaggregate. During this process heterochromatin in the mitonucleons undergoes changes usually ascribed to cells undergoing programmed cell death such as pyknosis and DNA fragmentation (Fleming, 2016b). The cells do not die, instead chromatin filaments appear to coalesce into a chromatin mass that gives rise to dome-filling nuclei by amitosis during the final three to four hours of the 20 hour differentiation (Fleming, 2016c).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1728/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology'], [u'Dean of Education, retired, Castleton State College']]
[u"Parents' phases and children's stages of HIV disclosure", ['Grace Gachanja', 'Gary J Burkholder', 'Aimee Ferraro'], u'2016-02-09', u'Background: HIV-positive parents are challenged with disclosure to their children. Some do not disclose at all, others disclose to some children, and many take years to fully disclose to all their children. Methods: This qualitative phenomenological study was conducted in Kenya to describe the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process. Sixteen HIV-positive parents were engaged in in-depth, semi-structured interviews. Interview data were analyzed using the modified Van Kaam method. Results: Parents had a total of 37 living children; 15 HIV-positive, 11 HIV-negative, and 11 of unknown HIV status. Parents went through four phases (secrecy, exploratory, readiness, full disclosure) of disclosure; most admitted needing healthcare professionals\u2019 help to move their children through the three child stages (no, partial, full) of disclosure . Most parents were in between the exploratory and full disclosure phases but had taken years to navigate these phases. Twelve children (HIV-negative and unknown status) had full disclosure of their parents\u2019 illnesses, nine HIV-positive children had full disclosure of their own and their parents\u2019 illnesses, and 10 children (five HIV-positive, four unknown status, and one HIV-negative) had partial disclosure of their own and/or their parents\u2019 illnesses. Parents had indefinite plans to disclose to the six children with no disclosure. Conclusion: Despite being challenged with disclosure, parents progressively navigated the disclosure phases and fully disclosed to the majority of their children. However, the creation of HIV disclosure guidelines, services, and programs would help hasten the time it takes for them to fully disclose to all their children.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1727/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'College of Health Sciences, Walden University', u'Laureate Education, Inc', u'College of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Walden University']]
[u"Healthcare professionals' perspectives on HIV disclosure of a parent's and a child's illness in Kenya", ['Grace Gachanja', 'Gary J Burkholder', 'Aimee Ferraro'], u'2016-02-09', u'Background: Many HIV-affected families have both parent(s) and child(ren) infected. HIV disclosure to children continues to be a great global challenge for HIV-positive parents and healthcare professionals (HCPs); parents and HCPs differ on how and when to disclose to children. Methods: Six HCPs including a physician, clinical officer, psychologist, registered nurse, social worker, and a peer educator participated in a larger qualitative phenomenological study conducted to describe the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya. Each HCP underwent an in-depth, semi-structured interview; transcribed data were analyzed using the modified Van Kaam method in NVivo8. Results: Despite HCPs providing parents with regular advice on the benefits of HIV disclosure, fear of stigma, discrimination, and disclosure consequences caused parents to delay disclosure of a parent\u2019s and/or a child\u2019s illness to their HIV-negative and positive children respectively for lengthy periods. While awaiting parental consent for full disclosure, HCPs were forced to provide age-appropriate disease-related information to children. HCPs preference however, was to fully disclose to children in their parents\u2019 presence at the clinic, when children started asking questions and/or displayed maturity and understanding of the illness. Conclusion: Parents are known to prefer disclosing to their children at a time and place of their choosing. Conversely, it appears that HCPs may prefer to disclose to children when they judge the time as being right. For favorable disclosure outcomes, further studies are needed to reconcile the most suitable timing, setting, and person to disclose to HIV-positive and negative children.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1726/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'HIV', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'College of Health Sciences, Walden University', u'College of Social and Behavioral Science, Walden University', u'Laureate Education, Inc']]
[u'Evolutionary relationships within the lamioid tribe Synandreae (Lamiaceae) based on multiple low-copy nuclear loci', ['Tilottama Roy', 'Nathan S Catlin', 'Drake M.G. Garner', 'Philip D Cantino', 'Anne-Cathrine Scheen', 'Charlotte Lindqvist'], u'2016-02-09', u'The subfamily Lamioideae (Lamiaceae) comprises ten tribes, of which only Stachydeae and Synandreae include New World members. Previous studies have investigated the phylogenetic relationships among the members of Synandreae based on plastid and nuclear ribosomal DNA loci. In an effort to re-examine the phylogenetic relationships within Synandreae, the current study incorporates data from four low-copy nuclear loci, PHOT1, PHOT2, COR, and PPR. Our results confirm previous studies based on chloroplast and nuclear ribosomal markers in supporting monophyly of tribe Synandreae, as well as sister relationships between Brazoria and Warnockia, and between that pair of genera and a monophyletic Physostegia. However, we observe incongruence in the relationships of Macbridea and Synandra. The placement of Synandreae within Lamioideae is poorly resolved and incongruent among different analyses, and the sister group of Synandreae remains enigmatic. Comparison of the colonization and migration patterns corroborates a single colonization of the New World by Synandreae during the mid-Miocene. This is in contrast to the only other lamioid tribe that includes New World members, Stachydeae, which colonized the New World at least twice\u2014during the mid-Miocene and Pliocene. Edaphic conditions and intolerance of soil acidity may be factors that restricted the distribution of most genera of Synandreae to southeastern and south-central North America, whereas polyploidy could have increased the colonizing capability of the more wide-ranging genus, Physostegia.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1725/', ['Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University at Buffalo', u'Current address: Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor', u'Current address: Department of Biology, University of Florida', u'Department of Environmental and Plant Biology, Ohio University', u'Museum of Archaeology, University of Stavanger']]
[u'Mobula kuhlii cleaning station identified at an inshore reef in southern Mozambique', ['Calum JG Murie', 'Andrea D Marshall'], u'2016-02-09', u'Cleaning interactions between the short fin devil ray, Mobula kuhlii, and the blue streaked cleaner wrasse, Labroides dimidiatus, were observed at two sites on a single reef in southern Mozambique. Cleaning interactions were filmed and described, with the number and location of interactions recorded and subsequently binned into six distinct body patches. Cleaners preferentially foraged within certain ray body patches, and this was found to vary between the two sites, possibly signifying that variations in a habitats composition can influence cleaning. Mobula kuhlii were not found to clean sympatrically with their close relatives in the Manta genus, implying their cleaning requires a distinct habitat or that niche partitioning is required to stem competition for host cleaner fishes attention. In total, 15 individuals were observed interacting with cleaners, and they never arrived alone, suggesting they may travel to cleaning areas in an aggregative manner.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1724/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Marine Megafauna Foundation', u'Marine Megafauna Foundation']]
[u'How are functionally similar code clones syntactically different? An empirical study and a benchmark', ['Stefan Wagner', 'Asim Abdulkhaleq', 'Ivan Bogicevic', 'Jan-Peter Ostberg', 'Jasmin Ramadani'], u'2016-02-09', u'Background. Today, redundancy in source code, so-called \u201cclones\u201d, caused by copy&paste can be found reliably using clone detection tools. Redundancy can arise also independently, however, caused not by copy&paste. At present, it is not clear how only functionally similar clones (FSC) differ from clones created by copy&paste. Our aim is to understand and categorise the syntactic differences in FSCs that distinguish them from copy&paste clones in a way that helps clone detection research. Methods. We conducted an experiment using known functionally similar programs in Java and C from coding contests. We analysed syntactic similarity with traditional detection tools and explored whether concolic clone detection can go beyond syntax. We ran all tools on 2,800 programs and manually categorised the differences in a random sample of 70 program pairs. Results. We found no FSCs where complete files were syntactically similar. We could detect a syntactic similarity in a part of the files in < 16 % of the program pairs. Concolic detection found 1 of the FSCs. The differences between program pairs were in the categories algorithm, data structure, OO design, I/O and libraries. We selected 58 pairs for an openly accessible benchmark representing these categories. Discussion. The majority of differences between functionally similar clones are beyond the capabilities of current clone detection approaches. Yet, our benchmark can help to drive further clone detection research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1516/', ['Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Universit\xe4t Stuttgart']]
[u'DChIPRep, an R/Bioconductor package for differential enrichment analysis in chromatin studies', ['Christophe D Chabbert', 'Lars M Steinmetz', 'Bernd Klaus'], u'2016-02-09', u'The genome\u2013wide study of epigenetic states requires the integrative analysis of histone modification ChIP\u2013seq data. Here, we introduce an easy\u2013to\u2013use analytic framework to compare profiles of enrichment in histone modifications around classes of genomic elements, e.g. transcription start sites (TSS). Our framework is available via the user\u2013friendly R/Bioconductor package DChIPRep. DChIPRep uses biological replicate information as well as chromatin Input data to allow for a rigorous assessment of differential enrichment. DChIPRep is available for download through the Bioconductor project at http://bioconductor.org/packages/DChIPRep.  Contact DChIPRep@gmail.com', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1723/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Statistics'], [u'Genome Biology Unit, European Molecular Biology Laboratory', u'Oncology iMed, CRUK-Cambridge Institute, Astra Zeneca', u'Stanford Genome Technology Center, Stanford University', u'Department of Genetics, Stanford University School of Medicine']]
[u'Psychometric properties of the Assessment of Positive Occupation 15 final version in individuals with mental disabilities', ['Takuya Noguchi', 'Makoto Kyougoku'], u'2016-02-06', u'Purpose: To verify the reliability and validity of the Assessment of Positive Occupation 15 (APO-15) in individuals with mental disabilities living in communities or admitted in hospitals. Methods: A sample of 408 individuals with mental disabilities completed APO-15, the Japanese version of the Recovery Assessment Scale (RAS), the Japanese version of the Self-identified Stage of Recovery Part-B (SISR-B), and the General Health Questionnaire 12 (GHQ-12). We analyzed the psychometric properties of APO-15, including confirmatory factor analysis, entropy, polyserial correlation coefficient, average variance extracted, Cronbach\u2019s \u03b1 coefficient, Pearson\u2019s product\u2013moment correlation coefficient, item response theory, and cut-off point. Results:  This study indicated the validity and reliability of APO-15 in a group of individuals with mental disabilities. The result of this study supported a four-factor model constructing of 15 items; includes a positive relationship, achievement, meaning, and engagement. Validity was supported by various results, i.e. the polyserial correlation and entropy were good, confirmatory factor analysis was a good estimate of the model fit, hypothesis testing was good convergent and discriminant validity, and concurrent validity also good. In addition, reliability was established by various analyses, i.e. the internal consistency reliability was good, and all items of APO-15 demonstrated satisfactory item response. The cut-off point became a 42-point sensitivity (0.770) and demonstrated good results with 1-specificity (0.441). That is, APO-15 can be used to appropriately measure the participation in occupation to promote the well-being of clients. Conclusion: APO-15 demonstrated good psychometric properties in measuring positive occupation in individuals with mental disabilities. APO-15 is an important tool to enable participation in activities that increase well-being in daily living.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1722/', ['Epidemiology', 'Nursing', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Doctor course, graduate school of health sciences, Kibi international university, Kibi international university', u'Zikei Hospital, 100-2, urayasuhon-machi, Minami-ku', u'Department of Occupational Therapy, School of Health Sciences, Kibi International University, Kibi International University']]
[u'Open computational landscape genetics', ['Stephane Joost', 'Solange Duruz', 'Estelle Rochat', 'Ivo Widmer'], u'2016-02-06', u'Geographical Information Systems (GIS) are considered to be applications-led technology. Consequently, geographic information scientists commonly find themselves as guest in host disciplines in order to best exploit spatial analysis tools and methods, appropriately guided by experts in the field. An example is population genetics in evolutionary biology. Genetic information being linked to living organisms can be partially characterized by geographic coordinates. A research field named landscape genetics emerged at the intersection of genetics, environmental and geographic information science. Geocomputation and programming efforts carried out with the help of open sources technologies and dedicated to the analysis of genetic data gather together a key scientific community whose goal is to extract new knowledge from the present data tsunami caused by the advent of high throughput molecular data and of new sources of high resolution environmental data. While the level of sophistication of the population genetics functions included in the analytical frameworks developed until now are cutting-edge, advanced geo-competences are also required to reinforce the spatial side of this discipline. They will be particularly useful in conservation programmes for wildlife preservation, but also in farm animal genetic resources conservation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1721/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Laboratory of Geographic Information Systems (LASIG) / School of Architecture, Civil and Environmental Engineering (ENAC), \xc9cole Polytechnique F\xe9d\xe9rale de  Lausanne (EPFL)']]
[u'Adoption of machine learning techniques in Ecology and Earth Science', ['Anne E Thessen'], u'2016-02-06', u'The natural sciences, such as ecology and earth science, study complex interactions between biotic and abiotic systems in order to infer understanding and make predictions. Machine-learning-based methods have an advantage over traditional statistical methods in studying these systems because the former do not impose unrealistic assumptions (such as linearity), are capable of inferring missing data, and can reduce long-term expert annotation burden. Thus, a wider adoption of machine learning methods in ecology and earth science has the potential to greatly accelerate the pace and quality of science. Despite these advantages, machine learning techniques have not had wide spread adoption in ecology and earth science. This is largely due to 1) a lack of communication and collaboration between the machine learning research community and natural scientists, 2) a lack of easily accessible tools and services, and 3) the requirement for a robust training and test data set. These impediments can be overcome through financial support for collaborative work and the development of tools and services facilitating ML use. Natural scientists who have not yet used machine learning methods can be introduced to these techniques through Random Forest, a method that is easy to implement and performs well. This manuscript will 1) briefly describe several popular ML methods and their application to ecology and earth science, 2) discuss why ML methods are underutilized in natural science, and 3) propose solutions for barriers preventing wider ML adoption.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1720/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'The Ronin Institute for Independent Scholarship', u'The Data Detektiv']]
[u'BMPR1A signalling is linked to tumour progression in dedifferentiated liposarcomas: lessons for rhBMP2 use in spinal surgery', ["Hannah L O'Neill", 'Amy P Cassidy', 'Olivia B Harris', 'John W Cassidy'], u'2016-02-06', u'Bone Morphogenic Protein 2 (BMP2) is a multipurpose cytokine, important in the development of bone and cartilage, and with a role in tumour initiation and progression. Because of BMP2\u2019s osteogenic properties, a recombinant human version (rhBMP2) has found utility as an adjuvant therapy during surgery for spinal fusions. However, the results of large-scale meta-analysis has highlighted the potential of rhBMP2 to promote new tumour formation, leading to an FDA black box warning. BMP2 signal transduction is dependent on two distinct classes of serine/threonine kinase known as the type I and type II receptors. Although the type I receptors (BMPR1A and BMPR1B) are largely thought to have overlapping functions, we find tissue and cellular compartment specific patterns of expression, suggesting potential for distinct BMP2 signalling outcomes dependent on tissue type. Herein, we utilise large publicly available datasets from The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) and Protein Atlas to define a novel role for BMPR1A-biased BMP2 signalling in soft tissue sarcomas. Using disease free survival as our primary endpoint, we find this BMPR1A-biased BMP2 signalling confers poor overall prognosis compared both to patients with BMPR1B-biased and to the sarcoma dataset as a whole. Through further annotation of the TCGA sarcoma dataset, we localise this effect to dedifferentiated liposarcomas but find overall BMP2/BMP receptor expression is equal across subsets. Finally, through gene set enrichment analysis we link this effect to increased transcriptional activity of the matrisome and general extracellular matrix remodelling. Our study highlights the importance of continued research into the tumorigenic properties of BMP2, the need for extensive patient follow-up and the potential disadvantages of rhBMP2 use. For the first time, we identify BMPR1A-biased BMP2 signalling as a biomarker of disease relapse in dedifferentiated liposarcomas.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1719/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Genomics', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Orthopedics'], [u'Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, University of Aberdeen', u'Queen Elizabeth University Hospital, NHS Greater Glasgow and Clyde', u'Wellcome Trust-MRC Stem Cell Institute, University of Cambridge', u'Department of Pathology, University of Cambridge', u"Queens' College, University of Cambridge", u'Institute of Cancer Sciences, University of Glasgow']]
[u'In  vitro evaluation of antimicrobial activity of 1-lauroyl-rac-glycerol on Candidaalbicans biofilms', ['Emily Chen', 'Dalia Seleem', 'Bruna Benso', 'Vanessa Pardi', 'Ramiro M Murata'], u'2016-02-06', u'Monolaurin (also known as glycerol monolaurate) is a natural compound found in coconut oil and is known for its protective biological activities as an antimicrobial agent. The nature of oral candidiasis and the increased antifungal resistance, culminate the need for investigating novel antifungal therapeutic agents. In this study, we examine the antifungal activity of monolaurin against Candida albicans biofilms (strain ATCC: SC5314/MYA2876) in vitro and how monolaurin may alter specific host inflammatory markers, such as gene expression of inflammatory cytokines IL-1\u03b1 and IL-1\u03b2, as illustrated in co-culture models. The results from three groups were compared: 1- monolaurin (in the range of 3.9-2500 \u03bcM), positive control fluconazole (322 \u03bcM), and vehicle control group 1% Ethanol (v/v) The MIC and MFC of monolaurin were in the range 62.5-125 \xb5M and 125-250 \xb5M, respectively. The results show significant reduction in Log (CFU/ ml) of biofilms treated with 1250 and 2500 \xb5M of 1- monolaurin when compared to the control groups. There was also a significant down-regulation of IL-1\u03b1 and IL-1\u03b2 in the biofilms treated with monolaurin. It can be concluded that monolaurin has a potential antifungal activity against C. albicans and can modulate the host\u2019s pro-inflammatory response.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1717/', ['Cell Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Dentistry'], [u'Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry, University of Southern California', u'Department of Periodontology Diagnostic Sciences, Dental Hygiene and Biomedical Science, University of Southern California', u'Department of Physiological Sciences, Piracicaba Dental School, State University of Campinas', u'Herman Ostrow School of Dentistry, University of Southern California']]
[u'Caribbean Bulimulus revisited: physical moves and molecular traces (Mollusca, Gastropoda, Bulimulidae)', ['Abraham SH Breure'], u'2016-02-06', u'Twenty-five samples of Bulimulus species are studied, partly from localities within their known distribution range, partly based on interceptions where the material originates from localities where the species seem to be recently introduced and non-native. Molecular study of cytochrome oxidase 1 (CO1) reveals the origin of some of these introductions, but is less conclusive for others. Four different methods for species delimitation were applied, which did not result in unambiguous species hypotheses. For a rapid identification of morphologically indistinct species, a more comprehensive database of sequences is needed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1716/', ['Biogeography', 'Molecular Biology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Royal Belgian Institute of Natural Sciences']]
[u'Navigating the challenges of medical English education: a novel approach using computational linguistics', ['Alberto A Gayle'], u'2016-02-06', u'Recent studies have shown that International medical graduates (IMG) comprise a substantial and increasingly larger share of the medical workforce, internationally. IMGs wishing to work in English-speaking countries face many challenges. And overcoming such challenges plays an important role in ensuring a more comfortable transition and improved outcomes for patients. This study addresses one such area of concern: the efficient acquisition of advanced language competence for use in the medical workplace. This research also addresses the needs of medical students and practitioners in other countries, where English is not the primary language. Medical terminology and phrasing is based on a tradition spanning more than 2500 years\u2014a tradition that cuts across typical linguistic and cultural boundaries. Indeed, as is commonly understood, the language required by doctors and other medical professionals varies substantially from the norm. In the present study, this dynamic is exploited to identify and characterize the language and patterns of usage specific to medical English, as it is used in practice and reporting. Overall, constructions comprised of preposition-dependent nouns, verbs and adjectives were found to be most prevalent (38%), followed by prepositional phrases (33%). The former includes constructions such as \u201cpresent with\u201d, \u201cpresent to\u201d, and \u201cpresent in\u201d; while constructions such as \u201cof \u2026 patient\u201d, \u201cin \u2026 group\u201d, and \u201cwith \u2026 disease\u201d comprise the latter. Preposition-independent noun and verb-based constructions were far less prevalent overall (18% and 5%, respectively). Up to now, medical language reference and learning material has focused on relatively uncommon, but essential, Greek and Latin terminology. This research challenges this convention, by demonstrating that medical language fluency would be acquired more efficiently by focusing on prepositional phrases or preposition-dependent verbs, nouns, and adjectives in context. This work should be of high interest to anyone interested in improved communication competence within the English-speaking medical workplace and beyond.\nWhat is already known on this subject :\n* International medical graduates make up a substantial portion of the medical workforce\n* Imperfect medical English creates challenges for international medical graduates\n* Subideal language impacts credibility and has been associated with increased risk to patients\nWhat this paper adds :\n* Preposition-dependent terms, following Germanic usage patterns, dominate medical English\n* Complex terms derived from Greek and Latin are far less prevalent than assumed\n* Medical English learning expected to be expedited by focus on preposition-dependent terms', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1711/', ['Translational Medicine', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Computational Science'], [u'Center for Medical and Nursing Education, Mie University School of Medicine', u'Department of Immunology, Mie University Graduate School of Medicine']]
[u'Canonical instabilities of autonomous vehicle systems', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2016-02-05', u"Formal argument suggests that command, communication and control systems can remain stable in the sense of the Data Rate Theorem that mandates the minimum rate of control information required to stabilize inherently unstable 'plants', but may nonetheless, under fog-of-war demands, collapse into dysfunctional modes at variance with their fundamental mission. We apply the theory to autonomous ground vehicles under intelligent traffic control in which swarms of interacting, self-driving devices are inherently unstable as a consequence of the basic irregularity of the road network. It appears that such 'V2V/V2I' systems will experience large-scale failures analogous to the vast propagating fronts of power network blackouts, and possibly less benign, but more subtle patterns of `psychopathology' at various scales.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1714/', ['Autonomous Systems', 'Real-Time and Embedded Systems', 'Robotics', 'Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, The New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Similarity to a single set', ['Lee Naish'], u'2016-02-05', u'Identifying patterns and associations in data is fundamental to discovery in science. This work investigates a very simple instance of the problem, where each data point consists of a vector of binary attributes, and attributes are treated equally. For example, each data point may correspond to a person and the attributes may be their sex, whether they smoke cigarettes, whether they have been diagnosed with lung cancer, etc. Measuring similarity of attributes in the data is equivalent to measuring similarity of sets - an attribute can be mapped to the set of data points which have the attribute. Furthermore, there is one identified base set (or attribute) and only similarity to that set is considered - the other sets are just ranked according to how similar they are to the base set. For example, if the base set is lung cancer sufferers, the set of smokers may well be high in the ranking. Identifying set similarity or correlation has many uses and is often the first step in determining causality. Set similarity is also the basis for comparing binary classifiers such as diagnostic tests for any data set. More than a hundred set similarity measures have been proposed in the literature is but there is very little understanding of how best to choose a similarity measure for a given domain. This work discusses numerous properties that similarity measures can have, weakening some previously proposed definitions so they are no longer incompatible, and identifying important forms of symmetry which have not previously been considered. It defines ordering relations over similarity measures and shows how some properties of a domain can be used to help choose a similarity measure which will perform well for that domain.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1713/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne']]
[u'PKC in motorneurons underlies self-learning, a form of motor learning in Drosophila', ['Julien Colomb', 'Bjorn Brembs'], u'2016-02-04', u'Tethering a fly for stationary flight allows for exquisite control of its sensory input, such as visual or olfactory stimuli or a punishing infrared laser beam. A torque meter measures the the turning attempts of the tethered fly around its vertical body axis. By punishing, say, left turning attempts (in a homogeneous environment), one can train a fly to restrict its behaviour to right turning attempts. It was recently discovered that this form of operant conditioning (called operant self-learning), may constitute a form of motor learning in Drosophila. Previous work had shown that Protein Kinase C (PKC) and the transcription factor dFoxP were specifically involved in self-learning, but not in other forms of learning. These molecules are specifically involved in various forms of motor learning in other animals, such as compulsive biting in Aplysia, song-learning in birds, procedural learning in mice or language acquisition in humans. Here we describe our efforts to decipher which PKC gene is involved in self-learning in Drosophila. We also provide evidence that motorneurons may be one part of the neuronal network modified during self-learning experiments. The collected evidence is reminiscent of one of the simplest, clinically relevant forms of motor learning in humans, operant reflex conditioning, which also relies on motorneuron plasticity', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1712/', ['Neuroscience'], [u'Biologie, Chemie, Pharmazie, Institut f\xfcr Biologie-Neurobiologie, Freie Universit\xe4t Berlin', u'Institute of Zoology - Neurogenetics, Universit\xe4t Regensburg']]
[u'Data Rate Theorem perspectives on the contribution of extrinsic risk factors to cancer development', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2016-02-04', u"We explore environmentally-induced tumors in the context of the ongoing conflict between long-evolved cancer control mechanisms and the central flaw of multicellularity, using a number of convergent necessary conditions statistical models based on the Data Rate Theorem linking control and information theories. Multicellular cancer suppression is an inherently unstable dynamic process that can fail through sufficient environmental insult, in particular for humans, involving the synergism of chemical exposures with the chronic inflammation of 'social' exposures that may be seen as accelerated aging.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1709/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Oncology', 'Public Health'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, The New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'A systematic review of natural processes in creating pierced shells: implications for the archaeological record', ['Anna Maria Kubicka', 'Zuzanna M Rosin', 'Piotr Tryjanowski', 'Emma Nelson'], u'2016-02-04', u'Background. The shells of molluscs survive well in most sedimentary contexts and yield information about the diet of prehistoric humans. They also yield evidence of symbolic behaviours, through their use as beads for body adornments. Researchers often analyse the location of perforations in shells to make judgements about their use as symbolic objects (i.e., beads), the assumption being, that holes attributable to deliberate human behaviour are more likely to exhibit low variability in their anatomical locations, while holes attributable to natural processes yield more random perforations. However, there are non-anthropogenic factors that can cause perforations in shells and these may not be random. The aim of the study is to look at the association between variation of holes in shell beads from archaeological sites and shells pierced by natural (non-human) processes. Methods. Two hundred and sixty scientific papers retrieved from online databases by using keywords, (e.g., \u2018shell beads\u2019; \u2018pierced shells\u2019); 77 of these publications enabled us to conduct a systematic review and assess the location of the hole in the shell beads in the published articles. Results. Almost all archaeological sites described shells beads with holes in a variety of anatomical locations. High variation of hole-placement was also found within the same species from the same site, as well as among sites. In contrast, predators were more specific in where they attacked molluscs; birds often select the thinnest part of the shell, while molluscs and cephalopods target thicker parts. Discussion. These results indicate that variation in hole-location on shells pierced by humans is greater than variation in the placement of holes created by natural processes. Consequently, these patterns are opposite to those expected. We also found that Gastropod and Bivalve predators choose similar hole locations to humans. Research into human shell-beads recovered from archaeological contexts should take into account non-anthropogenic factors, which can lead to more realistic scenarios of the cultural behaviours of prehistoric people.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1710/', ['Anthropology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Adam Mickiewicz University in Pozna\u0144', u'Department of Cell Biology, Adam Mickiewicz University in Pozna\u0144', u'Institute of Zoology, Pozna\u0144 University of Life Sciences', u'School of Medicine, University of Liverpool', u'Archeology, Classics and Egyptology, University of Liverpool']]
[u'Evolution of Philodendron (Araceae) species along Neotropical biomes', ['Leticia Loss-Oliveira', 'Cassia CMS Sakuragui', 'Maria de Lourdes Soares', 'Carlos G Schrago'], u'2016-02-03', u'Philodendron is the second most diverse genus of the Araceae, a tropical monocot family with significant morphological diversity along its wide geographic distribution in the Neotropics. Although evolutionary studies of Philodendron were conducted in recent years, the phylogenetic relationship among its species remains unclear. Additionally, analyses conducted to date suggested the inclusion of all American representatives of a closely related genus, Homalomena, within the Philodendron clade. A thorough evaluation of the phylogeny and timescale of these lineages is thus necessary to elucidate the tempo and mode of evolution of this large Neotropical genus and to unveil the biogeographic history of Philodendron evolution along the Amazonian and Atlantic Rain Forests, as well as open dry forests of South America. To this end, we have estimated the molecular phylogeny for 68 Philodendron species, which consists of the largest sampling assembled to date aiming the study of the evolutionary affinities. We have also performed ancestral reconstruction of species distribution along biomes. Finally, we contrasted these results with the inferred timescale of Philodendron and Homalomena lineage diversification. Our estimates indicate that American Homalomena is the sister clade to Philodendron. The early diversification of Philodendron took place in the Amazon Forest from Early to Middle Miocene, followed by colonization of the Atlantic Forest and the savanna-like landscapes, respectively. Based on the age of the last common ancestor of Philodendron, the species of this genus diversified by rapid radiations, leading to its wide extant distribution in the Neotropical region.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1708/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Genetics, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro', u'Department of Botany, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro', u'Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas da Amaz\xf4nia']]
[u'The genome and transcriptome of the Phalaenopsis yield insights into floral organ development and flowering regulation', ['Jian-Zhi Huang', 'Chih-Peng Lin', 'Ting-Chi Cheng', 'Ya-Wen Huang', 'Yi-Jung Tsai', 'Shu-Yun Cheng', 'Yi-Wen Chen', 'Chueh-Pai Lee', 'Wan-Chia Chung', 'Bill Chia-Han Chang', 'Shih-Wen Chin', 'Chen-Yu Lee', 'Fure-Chyi Chen'], u'2016-02-03', u'Phalaenopsis orchid is an important potted flower with high economic value around the world. We report the 3.1 Gb draft genome assembly of an important winter flowering Phalaenopsis \u2018KHM190\u2019 cultivar. We generated 89.5 Gb RNA-seq and 113 million sRNA-seq reads to use these data to identify 41,153 protein-coding genes and 188 miRNA families. We also generated a draft genome for Phalaenopsis pulcherrima \u2018B8802\u2019, a summer flowering species, via resequencing. Comparison of genome data between the two Phalaenopsis cultivars allowed the identification of 691,532 single-nucleotide polymorphisms. In this study, we reveal the key role of PhAGL6b in the regulation of flower organ development involves alternative splicing. We also show gibberellin pathways that regulate the expression of genes control flowering time during the stage in reproductive phase change induced by cool temperature. Our work should contribute a valuable resource for the flowering control, flower architecture development, and breeding of the Phalaenopsis orchids.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1707/', ['Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Plant Industry, National Pingtung University of Science and Technology', u'Bioinformatics Division, Yourgene Bioscience', u'Yourgene Bioscience']]
[u'Extending MetAMOS - new methods and new integrations', ['Marian Siwiak', 'Albert Bogdanowicz', 'Agnieszka Hajduk', 'Micha  Krassowski', 'Pawe  Jankowski', 'Mariia Savenko', 'Adam AP Pyzik', 'Pawel  Szczesny'], u'2016-02-03', u'Biodiversity analysis of metagenomic and metatranscriptomic data acquired from next-generation sequencing (NGS) requires following multiple analytic steps, often independent from each other with exception of passing output files of previous step as input for the following. If parameterization of steps following one after another is independent from one another, they may be pipelined. There are three most popular pipelines used for NGS analyses: QIIME, mothur and MetAMOS. In this work we describe our extensions to the latter. One is supplementing MetAMOS\u2019 default modes with taxonomic and metabolic biodiversity using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics data and the other provides a web-based interface to run predefined analyses that is easy to integrate with laboratory information management systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1706/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Oxford Data Science Centre', u'Department of Bioinformatics, Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics Polish Academy of Sciences', u'Applied Research Institute for Prospective Technologies', u'University of Warsaw', u'Laboratory of RNA Biology and Functional Genomics, Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics Polish Academy of Sciences', u'Faculty of Biology, Uniwersity of Warsaw']]
[u'The unreasonable effectiveness of traditional information retrieval in crash report deduplication', ['Joshua Charles Campbell', 'Eddie Antonio Santos', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2016-02-03', u'Organizations like Mozilla, Microsoft, and Apple are flooded with thousands of automated crash reports per day. Although crash reports contain valuable information for debugging, there are often too many for developers to examine individually. Therefore, in industry, crash reports are often automatically grouped together in buckets. Ubuntu\u2019s repository contains crashes from hundreds of software systems available with Ubuntu. A variety of crash report bucketing methods are evaluated using data collected by Ubuntu\u2019s Apport automated crash reporting system. The trade-off between precision and recall of numerous scalable crash 7 deduplication techniques is explored. A set of criteria that a crash deduplication method must meet is presented and several methods that meet these criteria are evaluated on a new dataset. The evaluations presented in this paper show that using off-the-shelf information retrieval techniques, that were not designed to be used with crash reports, outperform other techniques which are specifically designed for the task of crash bucketing at realistic industrial scales. This research indicates that automated crash bucketing still has a lot of room for improvement, especially in terms of identifier tokenization.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1705/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Sexing a gender-role-reversed species based on plumage: potential challenges in the red phalarope', ['Marie-Andree Giroux', 'Delphine Ditlecadet', 'Luc J Martin', 'Richard B. Lanctot', 'Nicolas Lecomte'], u'2016-02-03', u'Sex-role reversal, in which males care for offspring, can occur when mate competition is stronger between females than males. Secondary sex traits and mate attracting displays in sex-role-reversed species are usually more pronounced in females than in males. The red phalarope is a textbook example of a sex-role-reversed species. It is generally agreed that males are responsible for all incubation and parental care duties, whereas females typically desert males after having completed a clutch and may pair with new males to lay additional clutches. Breeding plumage of female red phalaropes is usually more brightly colored than male plumage, a reversed sexual dichromatism usually associated with sex-role reversal. Here, we confirm with PCR-based sexing that male red phalaropes can exhibit both the red body plumage typical of a female and the incubation behaviour typical of a male in this sex-role-reversed species. Our result, combined with previous observations of brightly coloured red phalaropes incubating nests at the same arctic location (Igloolik Island, Nunavut, Canada), suggests that plumage dichromatism alone may not be sufficient to distinguish males from females in this breeding population of red phalaropes. This stresses the need for more systematic genetic sexing combined with standardized description of intersexual differences in red phalarope plumages. Determining whether such female-like plumage on males is a result of phenotypic plasticity or genetic variation could contribute to further understanding sex-role reversal strategies in the short Arctic summer.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1704/', ['Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Canada Research Chair on Northern Biodiversity, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Rimouski', u"Centre d'\xc9tudes Nordiques, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Rimouski", u'Canada Research Chair in Polar and Boreal Ecology, Universit\xe9 de Moncton', u'Molecular Biology Unit, Fisheries and Oceans Canada', u'D\xe9partement de Biologie, Universit\xe9 de Moncton', u'Migratory Bird Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service', u'Qu\xe9bec Center for Biodiversity Science, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Rimouski']]
[u'Development and validation of a direct real-time PCR assay for Mycobacterium bovis and implementation into the United States national surveillance program', ['Philip E Dykema', 'Kevin D Stokes', 'Nadine R Beckwith', 'James W Mungin', 'Lizhe Xu', 'Deborah J Vickers', 'Monica M Reising', 'Doris M Bravo', 'Bruce V Thomsen', 'Suelee Robbe-Austerman'], u'2016-02-03', u'Abattoir surveillance for bovine tuberculosis, which consists of identifying and submitting granulomas for histopathology and mycobacterial culture was the primary means for detecting new cases in the United States. Mycobacterial culture is expensive, labor intensive and identifies cases weeks after slaughter, hampering trace back efforts. To address this inefficiency, the United States Department of Agriculture replaced culture with real-time PCR for screening granulomas. The objectives of this paper were to describe the development and validation of this PCR as well as the performance of the assay during the first year of implementation. Using archived culture and histologically positive tissue, the sensitivity was 0.96 (95% CI: 0.89, 0.99) for the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex primer-probe set and 0.89 (95% CI: 0.80, 0.95) for the Mycobacterium bovis specific primer-probe set. Specificity, estimated during by side by side testing was 0.998 (95% CI: 0.994, 1.000). After implementation, 6124 samples over 54 weeks were tested and all 36 histopathology positive samples were detected including 2 additional cases initially misclassified by histopathology. It appeared that specificity may have declined during post validation testing with 47/6086 signaling positive but not confirmed by either histopathology or culture. While PCR implementation has significantly improved the efficiency of the US slaughter surveillance program, careful attention must be paid to prevent and address cross contamination in the laboratory.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1703/', ['Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'National Veterinary Services Laboratories, United States Department of Agriculture', u'National Veterinary Services Laboratories, United States Department of Agriculture', u'Center for Veterinary Biologics, United States Department of Agriculture']]
[u'Fur or Fire: Was the use of fire the initial selection pressure for fur loss in ancestral hominins?', ['Alan J Couch'], u'2016-02-02', u'A variety of reasons have been advanced to explain the loss of fur in humans and why they differ in this way from all other primates. None of these reasons has become generally accepted as the explanation for the absence of functionally effective thermally insulating fur. The hypotheses previously advanced have not satisfactorily explained why humans are the unique naked ape. This paper proposes a new hypothesis; that Homo sapiens ancestors use of fire created the initial selection pressure leading to fur loss in humans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1702/', ['Anthropology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute for Applied Ecology, University of Canberra']]
[u'The effect of weight controllability beliefs on prejudice and self-efficacy', ['Einar B Thorsteinsson', 'Natasha M Loi', 'Dana Breadsell'], u'2016-02-02', u'An experiment was conducted to test for the presence of prejudice towards obesity and whether weight controllability beliefs information reduces this prejudice and impacts on a person\u2019s own healthy eating self-efficacy. The experiment randomly allocated 346 participants (49 males) into one of three conditions: controllable contributors toward obesity condition (e.g., information about personal control about diet and exercise); uncontrollable contributors toward obesity condition (e.g., information about genes, factors in society); and a control condition with no information given. Prejudice was present in 81% of the sample. High prejudice was predicted by low self-efficacy for exercise and weight. Weight controllability beliefs information had no significant effect on prejudice levels or exercise or healthy eating self-efficacy levels. Increasing self-efficacy for exercise and weight my help reduce prejudice towards obese individuals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1701/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Psychology / School of Behavioural, Cognitive and Social Sciences, University of New England']]
[u'A computational framework for colour metrics and colour space transforms', ['Ivar Farup'], u'2016-02-02', u'An object-oriented computational framework for the transformation of colour data and colour metric tensors is presented. The main idea of the design is to represent the transforms between spaces as compositions of objects from a class hierarchy providing the methods for both the transforms themselves and the corresponding Jacobian matrices. In this way, new colour spaces can be implemented on the fly by transforming from any existing colour space, and colour data in various formats as well as colour metric tensors and colour difference data can easily be transformed between the colour spaces. This reduces what normally requires several days of coding to a few lines of code without introducing a significant computational overhead. The framework is implemented in the Python programming language.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1700/', ['Computer Vision', 'Graphics', 'Optimization Theory and Computation', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Faculty of Computer Science and Media Technology, Gj\xf8vik University College']]
[u'ANGSD-wrapper: utilities for analyzing next generation sequencing data', ['Arun Durvasula', 'Paul J Hoffman', 'Tyler V Kent', 'Chaochih Liu', 'Thomas J Y Kono', 'Peter L Morrell', 'Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra'], u'2016-02-02', u'High throughput sequencing has changed many aspects of population genetics, molecular ecology, and related fields, affecting both experimental design and data analysis. The software package ANGSD allows users to perform a number of population genetic analyses on high-throughput sequencing data. ANGSD uses probabilistic approaches to calculate genome-wide descriptive statistics. The package makes use of genotype likelihood estimates rather than SNP calls and is specifically designed to produce more accurate results for samples with low sequencing depth. ANGSD makes use of full genome data while handling a wide array of sampling and experimental designs. Here we present ANGSD-wrapper, a set of wrapper scripts that provide a user-friendly interface for running ANGSD and visualizing results. ANGSD-wrapper supports multiple types of analyses including esti- mates of nucleotide sequence diversity and performing neutrality tests, principal component analysis, estimation of admixture proportions for individuals samples, and calculation of statistics that quantify recent introgression. ANGSD-wrapper also provides interactive graphing of ANGSD results to enhance data exploration. We demonstrate the usefulness of ANGSD-wrapper by analyzing resequencing data from populations of wild and domesticated Zea. ANGSD-wrapper is freely available from https://github.com/mojaveazure/angsd-wrapper.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1472/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Agronomy and Plant Genetics, University of Minnesota', u'Center for Population Biology and Genome Center, University of California, Davis']]
[u'Biological and biosimilar medicinal products: safety and efficacy', ['Teresa Brodniewicz'], u'2016-02-02', u'Biological medicinal products are one of most innovative and promising methods of pharmacotherapy. During the last 20 years several original biological medicinal products have been registered and marketed. Their safety and efficacy have been investigated thoroughly at the level of pre-clinical and clinical studies. These are large, complex protein structures obtained through methods used in genetic engineering, or they are isolated from biological sources. Basically there are two types of biological products: 1) Those naturally present in the body like: Insulin, human growth factor, Factor VIII, erythropoietin; 2) Substances influencing certain mechanisms being the cause of the disease: anti-TNF; anti-IL 17; Anti-CD-20. These biological medicinal products can be divided into Blood and blood components, Vaccines, Allergen extracts, Proteins, Human tissues, Cell and gene therapy, Monoclonal antibodies. The size of biological products may vary between 4 500 D (enoxaparin) and 150 000 (monoclonal antibody) and more, while aspirin size is only 150 D. While biological products are attractive, most patients cannot afford their high cost (roughly estimated 550 US$ a day). However, biosimilar products are much cheaper while offering a good therapeutical alternative with the same safety and efficacy features as the former. Currently, 200 companies worldwide have about 700 of biosimilars under the development. Consequently biosimilar products are having more success in the market and thus are more accessible to patients.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1699/', ['Biotechnology', 'Clinical Trials'], [u'MTZ Clinical Research Sp. z o.o.']]
[u'Vaccine coverage and the cost effectiveness of dengue vaccine in South East Asia', ['Sittisede Polwiang'], u'2016-02-02', u'Background: Dengue is one of the most important vector-borne diseases, nearly 400000 reported cases in South East Asia and more than 2000 fatalities annually. The first of dengue vaccine called Dengvaxia by the French company, Sanofi Pasteur, was recently approved in Mexico, Brazil and the Philippines to be used for persons who are 9-45 years of age. Objective: The objective of this study was to estimate the effective of a vaccine to dengue transmission and the cost-effectiveness of the vaccine in South East Asia (SEA). Methods: The simulation and analysis was carried out using a mathematical model for dengue transmission. The vaccine was given to a certain part of population in the community and the number of dengue infections and incidences was then calculated. The cost effective price of the vaccine was measured as disability adjusted life years (DALYs) averted, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the vaccination was expressed in 2015 US dollars per DALY averted for the countries in SEA. Results: The herd immunity was observed in the model simulation. The number of dengue incidences was declined with increased vaccine coverage in the community. If a vaccination program would be implemented the highly cost effective of vaccine per person should be 25-28 US dollars in SEA country on the average. Conclusions: Our results describe effects of the dengue vaccination to infections and incidences. The price of the vaccine has been calculated and and it is different in each SEA country due to several factors such as the number of incidences, the GDP per capita, the hospital costs and the DALYs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1694/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department  of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Silpakorn University']]
[u'Some technical and mechanical properties of mibuna (Brassica rapa var. Nipposinica) and mizuna (Brassica rapa var. Japonica)', ['Fusun Hasturk Sahin', 'Turkan Aktas', 'Funda Eryilmaz Acikgoz', 'Tamer Akcay'], u'2016-02-02', u'In this research, some physical (leaf area, leaf width, stalk width, plant mass, moisture) and mechanical properties (tear resistance, puncture resistance), color parameters (L*, a*, b*, YI) of Mibuna (Brassica rapavar. Nipposinica) and Mizuna (Brassica rapa var. Japonica) plants that are Far East Origin vegetables were determined and compared. Also respiratory rate and dry matter loss values just after harvesting and 1 week later harvesting were calculated and compared using measured CO2 concentration values. It was determined that the differences between mean values of physical properties of leaf and stalk parts of mizuna and mibuna plants were found to be statistically significant (P<0.05). CO2 measurements which were made just after harvesting and 1 week later harvesting showed that respiration rate and dry matter loss for mizuna was found faster than those values for mibuna plant. Also it was found that respiration rate and dry matter loss values determined just after harvesting was found higher than those values determined 1 week later harvesting.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1698/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioengineering', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Agricultural Machinery, University of Namik Kemal, Vocational College of Hayrabolu', u'Department of  Biosystem Engineering, University of Namik Kemal, Faculty of Agriculture', u'Department of Plant and Animal Production, University of Namik Kemal, Vocational College of Technical Sciences']]
[u'Integration of multi-omics data from public resources for the functional analysis of biological networks: molecular-genetic pathways involving aryl hydrocarbon receptor', ['Serena Dotolo', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2016-02-02', u'Omics approaches are widely applied to investigate physiological processes and pathological conditions. Many public data repositories make it possible to extract data for their analyses, comparisons and integrations, provided the availability of suitable tools. Our interest is oriented to the integration of data from different experimental approaches and fields of investigation, covering transcriptomics, proteomics, interactomics, variation data, and drug discovery, in order to highlight hiddens information and to mine new knowledge from available experimental data. Therefore, we look at specific gene and protein functions, for which specific interest has been evidenced, and search for a complete view of their relationships in physiological processes. Moreover, focusing on specific pathologies, we extract from public databases the largest amount of experimental results and analyze them with meta-analysis approaches, to find novel insights on molecular aspects, useful for defining diagnostics or therapy. In this work, our attention is focused on integrative-functional analysis of molecular pathways that involve AHR (Aryl hydrocarbon receptor), a cytosolic transcription factor consisting of several protein domains with distinct functions, including hydrocarbon binding as well as DNA-protein and protein-protein interactions. Previous studies from our lab on this protein give us some specific interest and knowledge about its involvement in many pathologies. Therefore, we investigate it from the physiological point of view, as well as for its role in specific pathologies, also in the view of the molecular network that includes other proteins of interest for the pathology. The functional analysis is executed by means of different open-source bioinformatics platforms, including GeneCards, DSYSMAP, and in particular, Cytoscape platform for realizing and visualizing molecular networks at different levels, in order to improve the knowledge of molecular mechanisms. Furthermore, as an example on a specific pathology, we use the BioGPS platform to extrapolate by Gene Atlas the gene expression profile of our biological targets involved in melanoma, and MelGene DB (a database for melanoma genetic studies and for analysis some important melanoma biomarkers). The poster presents the molecular networks and discusses the potential roles of specifc nodes evidenced by the analysis, also in consideration of the role of disease-related mutations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1697/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute of Food Science, National Research Council']]
[u'No improved resistance against generalist herbivores found for invasive genotypes: a case study of Senecio vulgaris (Asteraceae) and a generalist snail (Achatina fulica)', ['Viet Thang Nguyen', 'Noel Ndihokubwayo', 'Dandan Cheng'], u'2016-02-02', u'Invasive plants escape from some natural enemies as predictions of Enemy Release Hypothesis (ERH). However, in fact they still have to face the pressure of generalist herbivores in introduced ranges resulting in the maintenance or enhancing of resistance ability to generalist herbivores. In this study, we carried out a general feeding bioassay in a laboratory with leaves of Senecio vulgaris to test the difference in resistance between ranges. White jade land snails (WJLD, Achatina fulica) were fed with the leaves of Pakchoi (Brassica chinensis), Lettuce (Lactuca sativa), native and invasive plants of S. vulgaris. The feeding experiment with S. vulgaris leaves was carried out in two waves. We found that both native and invasive S. vulgaris plant were resistant again to WJLD compared to Pakchoi and Lettuce. However, there were no significant differences between native and invasive plants of S. vulgaris in relation to the resistance against WJLD. The results prove the maintenance of chemical defense against generalist herbivores in invasive plants in introduced range. The success of S. vulgaris to invader China could not be explained by releasing from natural enemies but possessing of defense ability against herbivores before it introduced to China.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1696/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science'], [u'School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan)']]
[u'Identifying contamination with advanced visualization and analysis practices: metagenomic approaches for eukaryotic genome assemblies', ['Tom O Delmont', 'A. Murat Eren'], u'2016-02-02', u'High-throughput sequencing provides a fast and cost effective mean to recover genomes of organisms from all domains of life. However, adequate curation of the assembly results against potential contamination of non-target organisms requires advanced bioinformatics approaches and practices. Here, we re-analyzed the sequencing data generated for the tardigrade Hypsibius dujardini using approaches routinely employed by microbial ecologists who reconstruct bacterial and archaeal genomes from metagenomic data. We created a holistic display of the eukaryotic genome assembly using DNA data originating from two groups and eleven sequencing libraries. By using bacterial single-copy genes, k-mer frequencies, and coverage values of scaffolds we could identify and characterize multiple near-complete bacterial genomes, and curate a 182 Mbp draft genome for H. dujardini supported by RNA-Seq data. Our results indicate that most contaminant scaffolds were assembled from Moleculo long-read libraries, and most of these contaminants have differed between library preparations. Our re-analysis shows that visualization and curation of eukaryotic genome assemblies can benefit from tools designed to address the needs of today\u2019s microbiologists, who are constantly challenged by the difficulties associated with the identification of distinct microbial genomes in complex environmental metagenomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1695/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Medicine, University of Chicago', u'Josephine Bay Paul Center, Marine Biological Laboratory']]
[u'A comparison of clustering methods for biogeography with fossil datasets', ['Matthew J Vavrek'], u'2016-02-02', u'Cluster analysis is one of the most commonly used methods in palaeoecological studies, particularly in studies investigating biogeographic patterns. Although a number of different clustering methods are widely used, the approach and underlying assumptions of many of these methods are quite different. For example, methods may be hierarchical or non-hierarchical in their approaches, and may use Euclidean distance or non-Euclidean indices to cluster the data. In order to assess the effectiveness of the different clustering methods as compared to one another, a simulation was designed that could assess each method over a range of both cluster distinctiveness and sampling intensity. Additionally, a non-hierarchical, non-Euclidean, iterative clustering method implemented in the R Statistical Language is described. This method, Non-Euclidean Relational Clustering (NERC), creates distinct clusters by dividing the data set in order to maximize the average similarity within each cluster, identifying clusters in which each data point is on average more similar to those within its own group than to those in any other group. While all the methods performed well with clearly differentiated and well-sampled datasets, when data are less than ideal the linkage methods perform poorly compared to non-Euclidean based k-means and the NERC method. Based on this analysis, Unweighted Pair Group Method with Arithmetic Mean and neighbor joining methods are less reliable with incomplete datasets like those found in palaeobiological analyses, and the k-means and NERC methods should be used in their place.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1693/', ['Biogeography', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Natural History, Royal Ontario Museum']]
[u'Effects of range, seasons and storage under different temperatures on germination of Senecio vulgaris (Asteraceae) seeds', ['Noel Ndihokubwayo', 'Viet - Thang Nguyen', 'Dandan Cheng'], u'2016-01-30', u'Invasive plants colonize new environments, become pests and cause biodiversity loss, economic loss and health damage. Senecio vulgaris (Common groundsel, Asteraceae), a cosmopolitan weed wildly distributes in the temperate area, is reported with large populations in the north\u2013eastern and south\u2013western parts, but not in southern, central, northern or north-western part of China. We studied the germination behavior of S. vulgaris to explain the distribution and the biological invasion of this species in China. We used seeds originated from 12 populations in native and invasive range (six populations in each range) to conduct germination experiments in a climate chamber and ambient condition. When incubated in climate chamber (15\xb0C) seeds from the majority of population showed >90% germination percentage (GP) and the GP was equal for both ranges. The mean germination time (MGT) was significant different among the populations. Under ambient conditions, significant effect of range, storage conditions (stored at 4 or 27\xb0C) and seasons (in summer or autumn) were observed on the GP while the MGT was only affected by the season. In autumn, the GP was higher (38.6%) and the MGT was slightly longer than that in summer (4.5%). In autumn, seeds stored at 4\xb0C showed higher GP than those stored at 27\xb0C, and seeds from invasive population revealed higher GP than those from native populations. High GP and short time for seed emergence demonstrated that in S. vulgaris seeds checked in this study were from Senecio vulgaris ssp vulgaris, the non \u2013 dormancy subspecies. The results also implied that the high temperature exceeds the threshold for S. vulgaris to germinate and storage at high temperature cause S. vulgaris seeds lost the viability greatly. This demonstrates the reason why in Wuhan S.vulgaris can\u2019t establish natural and viable populations, and also explain why S.vulgaris is scattered in China.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1691/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan)']]
[u'Are the impacts of an ecosystem engineer context-dependent? Tests with the leaf-cutter ant Atta laevigata in a Neotropical savanna', ['Alan N Costa', 'Emilio M Bruna', 'Heraldo L Vasconcelos'], u'2016-01-30', u'Species that transform habitats or create new ones are known as Ecosystem Engineers. It has been posited that ecosystem engineers benefit other species by ameliorating conditions at the stressful end of environmental gradients, but that this beneficial impact diminishes as conditions along the gradient become more benign. We tested this hypothesis along a canopy-cover gradient in Brazil\u2019s Cerrado with a widespread engineer of Neotropical ecosystems \u2013 the leaf-cutter ant Atta laevigata. We tested for changes in environmental conditions influencing seedling establishment, seedling abundance, and seedling diversity at different distances from ant nests. Local environmental conditions are influenced by both canopy cover and proximity to nests. Furthermore, the negative effect of Atta on seedlings overwhelms that of the gradient, but these impacts restricted to the area covered by nest mounds. The results demonstrate that some engineers amplify rather than reduce stress along environmental gradients, but that these impacts can be context-dependent and spatially-complex.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1692/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology'], [u'Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Federal de Uberl\xe2ndia', u'Wildlife Ecology and Conservation, University of Florida', u'Center for Latin American Studies, University of Florida', u'Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Federal de Uberl\xe2ndia']]
[u'Nutraceutical search through the pipeline of pharmacophore-based virtual screening', ['Amit Dubey', 'Eugenio Del Prete', 'Serena Dotolo', 'Angelo Gaeta', 'Anna Marabotti', 'Pramod W Ramteke', 'Angelo Facchiano'], u'2016-01-30', u'Nutraceuticals are food or their parts, present in conventional or non-conventional form, with verified safety and health benefits, beyond their nutritional value. In this work, we describe a novel pipeline for nutraceutical compounds research in the field of pharmacophore screening, providing a new idea for drug discovery. In the first step, to identify novel nutraceuticals potentially active as inhibitors of a given enzyme, a pharmacophore model is generated, with its key chemical features, starting from the experimental structure of the complex with known protein inhibitors, with pharmacophores ranking based on statistical values of sensitivity and specificity. After the validation step, this pharmacophore model is used for 3D structural screening and mapping against a subset of known nutraceutical compounds, generated through DrugBank or against special subsets from ZINC (ZINC Drug Database - Zdd and ZINC In Man - Zim). Moreover, molecular docking is performed to verify binding affinity of compounds. The hits with a good binding energy are then investigated in more details, compared with their pharmacophore features and analysed for their interacting residues. Then, to have an in silico interpretation of the potential activity of the compounds, an integrated investigation is performed, by mining literature reports about the effects of the specific compound (or food containing it) against human diseases, extracting expression data from omics repositories, in the view of integrating these information with molecular pathways and networks. Output of our pipeline are candidates for in vitro and in vivo experiments, to test the hypothesis and verify if they could become novel potential drugs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1690/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u"Istituto di Scienze dell'Alimentazione, National Research Council", u'Jacob School of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agriculture, Technology and Sciences', u'International Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology', u'Institute of Food Sciences, National Research Council', u'Department of Sciences, University of Basilicata', u'Doctorate School in Biochemical and Biotechnological Sciences, Second University of Naples', u'Dipartimento di Chimica e Biologia \u201cA. Zambelli\u201d, University of Salerno']]
[u'Time-of-day effects in implicit associations are probably selection effects, not circadian rhythms', ['Timothy P Schofield'], u'2016-01-30', u'Time-of-day effects in human psychological functioning have been known of since the 1800s. However, outside of those specifically focused on the quantification of circadian rhythms, they have largely been neglected. Moves toward online data collection now mean that psychological investigations take place around the clock, which affords researchers the ability to easily study time-of-day effects. Recent analyses have shown, for instance, that implicit attitudes have time-of-day effects. The plausibility that these effects indicate circadian rhythms rather than selection effects is considered in the current study. There was little evidence that the time-of-day effects in implicit attitudes shifted appropriately with factors known to influence circadian rhythms, and even variables that cannot logically show circadian rhythms demonstrated stronger time-of-day effects than did implicit attitudes. Taken together, these results suggest that time-of-day effects in implicit attitudes are more likely to represent selection effects rather than circadian rhythms, but do not rule out the latter possibility.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1475/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'Center for Research on Ageing, Health, and Wellbeing, Australian National University']]
[u'Tracking white sharks in a dynamic system at the southern tip of Africa', ['Oliver JD Jewell', 'David Edwards'], u'2016-01-30', u'Sharks and rays are among the most important of marine megafauna as they are ecologically vital predators. However, most species are threatened and over exploited. Identifying core-habitats and movement patterns within aggregation areas is critical for conservation and management efforts. White sharks are threatened globally and considered at risk of extinction. South Africa hosts the largest known concentration of the species with several documented coastal aggregations. This digital object details the various types of biotelemetry used to collect movement data from sharks as well as deployment methods and data analysis, with specific emphasis on active acoustic transmitters and manual tracking of individual sharks in Gansbaai, Western Cape (as in Jewell et al., 2014).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1689/', ['Biotechnology', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Spatial Ecology, Royal Netherlands Institute for Sea Research (NIOZ) Yerseke', u'Dyer Island Conservation Trust', u'Department of Zoology & Entomology, University of Pretoria', u'www.edna.uk.net, EDNA']]
[u'Multiple dimensions of bacterial diversity unrelated to functioning, stability and multifunctionality', ['Fabian Roger', 'Stefan Bertilsson', 'Silke Langenheder', 'Omneya Ahmed', 'Lars Gamfeldt'], u'2016-01-28', u'Bacteria are essential for many ecosystem services but our understanding of factors controlling their functioning is incomplete. While biodiversity has been identified as an important driver of ecosystem processes in macrobiotic communities, we know much less about bacterial communities. Due to the high diversity of bacterial communities, high functional redundancy is commonly proposed as an explanation for a lack of clear effects of diversity. The generality of this claim has, however, been questioned. We present the results of an outdoor dilution-to-extinction experiment with four lake bacterial communities. We found no general effects of bacterial diversity in terms of effective number of species, phylogenetic diversity or functional diversity on (i) bacterial abundance, (ii) temporal stability of abundance, (iii) nitrogen concentration, or (iv) multifunctionality. A literature review of 21 peer-reviewed studies that used dilution-to-extinction to manipulate bacterial diversity corroborated our findings: only about 25% found positive relationships. Combined, these results suggest that bacterial communities are able to uphold multifunctional ecosystems even at extensive reductions in diversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1688/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Marine Sciences, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Ecology and Genetics, Limnology, and Science for Life Laboratory, Uppsala Universitet']]
[u'Looking upstream: enhancers of child nutritional status in post-flood rural settings', ['Jose Manuel Rodriguez-Llanes', 'Shishir Ranjan-Dash', 'Alok Mukhopadhyay', 'Debarati Guha-Sapir'], u'2016-01-28', u'Background. Child undernutrition and flooding are highly prevalent public health issues in many developing countries. Yet we have little understanding of preventive strategies for effective coping in these circumstances. Education has been recently highlighted as key to reduce the societal impacts of extreme weather events under climate change, but there is a lack of studies assessing to what extent parental education may prevent post-flood child undernutrition. Methods and materials. One year after large floods in 2008, we conducted a two-stage cluster population-based survey of 6\u201359 months children inhabiting flooded and non-flooded communities of Jagatsinghpur district, Odisha (India), and collected anthropometric measurements on children along with child, parental and household level variables through face-to-face interviews. Using multivariate logistic regression models, we examined separately the effect of maternal and paternal education and other risk factors (mainly income, socio-demographic, and child and mother variables) on stunting and wasting in children from households inhabiting recurrently flooded communities (2006 and 2008; n = 299). As a comparison, separate analyses on children in non-flooded communities were carried out (n = 385). All analyses were adjusted by income as additional robustness check. Results. Overall, fathers with at least completed middle education (up to 14 years of age and compulsory in India) had an advantage in protecting their children from child wasting and stunting. For child stunting, the clearest result was a 100 to 200% lower prevalence associated with at least paternal secondary schooling (compared to no schooling) in flooded-areas. Again, only in flooded communities, an increase in per capita annual household income of 1,000 rupees was associated to a 4.7\u20134.9% lower prevalence of child stunting. For child wasting and only in flooded areas, delayed motherhood was associated to better nutritional outcomes (3.4% lower prevalence per year). In flooded communities, households dedicated to activities other than agriculture, a 50 to 51% lower prevalence of child wasting was estimated, suggesting farmers and fishermen as the most vulnerable livelihoods under flooding. In flooded areas, lower rank castes were at higher odds of both child wasting and stunting. Conclusions. In the short-term, protracted nutritional response in the aftermath of floods should be urgently implemented and target agricultural livelihoods and low-rank castes. Education promotion and schooling up to 14 years should have positive impacts on improving children nutritional health in the long run, especially under flooding. Policies effectively helping sustainable livelihood economic development and delayed motherhood are also recommended.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1687/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Nutrition', 'Pediatrics', 'Public Health'], [u'Centre for Research on the Epidemiology of Disasters, Institute of Health and Society, Universit\xe9 catholique de Louvain', u"Siksha 'O' Anusandhan University", u'Tata Trusts', u'Voluntary Health Association of India']]
[u'Probabilistic programming in Python using PyMC3', ['John Salvatier', 'Thomas V Wiecki', 'Christopher Fonnesbeck'], u'2016-01-28', u'Probabilistic Programming allows for automatic Bayesian inference on user-defined probabilistic models. Recent advances in Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) sampling allow inference on increasingly complex models. This class of MCMC, known as Hamliltonian Monte Carlo, requires gradient information which is often not readily available. PyMC3 is a new open source Probabilistic Programming framework written in Python that uses Theano to compute gradients via automatic differentiation as well as compile probabilistic programs on-the-fly to C for increased speed. Contrary to other Probabilistic Programming languages, PyMC3 allows model specification directly in Python code. The lack of a domain specific language allows for great flexibility and direct interaction with the model. This paper is a tutorial-style introduction to this software package.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1686/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'AI Impacts', u'Quantopian Inc', u'Department of Biostatistics, Vanderbilt University']]
[u'Experimental evidence that habitat-specific chemical cues influence fish preference patterns', ['Charles W Martin'], u'2016-01-27', u'Vegetated habitats provide numerous benefits to nekton, including structural refuge from predators and food sources. However, the sensory mechanisms by which fishes locate these habitats remain unclear for many species, especially when environmental conditions (such as increased turbidity) are unfavorable for visual identification of habitats. Here, a series of laboratory experiments test whether three species of adult fish (golden topminnow Fundulus chrysotus G\xfcnther 1866, sailfin molly Poecilia latipinna Lesueur 1821, and western mosquitofish Gambusia affinis Baird and Girard 1853) use plant chemical cues to orient to one of two habitats (hydrilla Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle or water hyacinth Eichhornia crassipes (Mart.) Solms). First, experiments in aquaria were conducted offering fish a choice of the two habitats to determine preference patterns. Next, a two-channel flume, with each side containing flow originating in one of the two habitats, was used to determine if preferences were still exhibited when fish could only detect habitats through olfactory means. While patterns among the three fish species tested here were variable, results did indicate consistent habitat preferences despite the lack of cues other than olfactory, suggesting that these organisms are capable of discriminating habitats via chemical exudates from plants. As such, olfactory mechanisms likely provide vital information about the surrounding environment and future work should be directed at determining how anthropogenic inputs such as eutrophication and sediment runoff affect the physiology of these sensory capabilities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1685/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Oceanography and Coastal Sciences, Louisiana State University']]
[u'Apparent source levels and active communication space of whistles of free-ranging Indo-Pacific humpback dolphins (Sousa chinensis) in the Pearl River Estuary and Beibu Gulf, China', ['Zhi-Tao Wang', 'Whitlow Au', 'Luke Rendell', 'Ke-Xiong Wang', 'Hai-Ping Wu', 'Yu-Ping Wu', 'Jian-Chang Liu', 'Guo-Qin Duan', 'Han-Jiang Cao', 'Ding Wang'], u'2016-01-27', u'Background. Knowledge of species-specific vocalization characteristics and their associated active communication space, the effective range over which a communication signal can be detected by a conspecific, is critical for understanding the impacts of underwater acoustic pollution, as well as other threats. Methods. We used a two-dimensional cross-shaped hydrophone array system to record the whistles of free-ranging Indo-Pacific humpback dolphins (Sousa chinensis) in shallow-water environments of the Pearl River Estuary (PRE) and Beibu Gulf (BG), China. Using hyperbolic position fixing, which exploits time differences of arrival of a signal between pairs of hydrophone receivers, we obtained source location estimates for whistles with good signal-to-noise ratio (SNR\u226510 dB) and not polluted by other sounds and back-calculated their apparent source levels. Combining with the masking levels (including simultaneous noise levels, masking tonal threshold, and the Sousa auditory threshold) and the custom made site-specific sound propagation models, we further estimated their active communication space (ACS). Results. Humpback dolphins produced whistles with average root-mean-square apparent source levels (ASL) of 138.5 \xb1 6.8 (mean \xb1 standard deviation) and 137.2 \xb1 7.0 dB re 1\u03bcPa in PRE (N=33) and BG (N=209), respectively. We found statistically significant differences in ASLs among different whistle contour types. The mean and maximum ACS of whistles were estimated to be 14.7 \xb1 2.6 (median \xb1 quartiledeviation) and 17.1\xb1 3.5 m in PRE, and 34.2 \xb1 9.5 and 43.5 \xb1 12.2 m in BG. Using just the auditory threshold as the masking level produced the mean and maximum ACSat of 24.3 \xb1 4.8 and 35.7\xb1 4.6 m for PRE, and 60.7 \xb1 18.1 and 74.3 \xb1 25.3 m for BG. The small ACSs were due to the high ambient noise level. Significant differences in ACSs were also observed among different whistle contour types. Discussion. Besides shedding some light for evaluating appropriate noise exposure levels and information for the regulation of underwater acoustic pollution, these baseline data can also be used for aiding the passive acoustic monitoring of dolphin populations, defining the boundaries of separate groups in a more biologically meaningful way during field surveys, and guiding the appropriate approach distance for local dolphin-watching boats and research boat during focal group following.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1684/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'The Key Laboratory of Aquatic Biodiversity and Conservation of the Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute of Hydrobiology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Marine Mammal Research Program, Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii', u'Sea Mammal Research Unit, School of Biology, University of St. Andrews', u'School of Marine Sciences, Qinzhou University', u'School of Marine Sciences, Sun Yat-Sen University', u'Transport Planning and Research Institute, Ministry of Transport', u'Hongkong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge Authority']]
[u'Effect of the Blowflies (Diptera: Calliphoridae) on the size and weight of Mango (Mangifera indica L.)', ['Shafqat Saeed', 'Muhammad Nadir Naqqash', 'Waqar Jaleel', 'Qamar Saeed', 'Fozia Ghouri'], u'2016-01-27', u'Background: Pollination has a great effect on the yield of fruit trees. Blowflies are considered as an effective pollinator compared to hand pollination in fruit orchards. Therefore, this study was designed to evaluate the effect of different pollination methods in mango orchards. Methodology: The impact of pollination on quantity and quality of mango yield by blowflies was estimated by using three treatments, i.e., open pollinated trees, trees were covered by a net in the presence of blowflies for pollination, and trees were covered with a net but without insects. Results: The maximum number of flowers was recorded in irregular type of inflorescence, i.e., 434.80flowers/inflorescence. Fruit setting (bud) was higher in open pollinated mango tree (i.e. 37.00/inflorescence) than enclosed pollination by blowflies (i.e. 22.34/inflorescence). The size of the mango fruit was the highest (5.06mm) in open pollinated tree than the pollinated by blowflies (3.93mm) and followed by without any pollinator (3.18mm) at marble stage. We found maximum weight of mango fruit (201.19g) in open pollinated trees. Discussion: The results demonstrated that blowflies can be used as effective mango pollinators along with other bees. The blowflies have shown a positive impact on the quality and quantity of mango. This study will be helpful in future and also applicable at farm level to use blow flies as pollinators that are cheap and easy to rear.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1683/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Entomology, Muhammad Nawaz Sharif University of Agriculture', u'Plant Protduction and Techonologies, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences and Technology', u'Entomology, South China Agriculture University', u'Entomology, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Multan', u'Plant Genetics, College Agriculture, South China Agricultural, University']]
[u'Enriching scientific publications with interactive 3D PDF figures: A complete toolbox', ['Axel Newe'], u'2016-01-27', u'Three-dimensional (3D) data of many kinds is produced at an increasing rate throughout all scientific disciplines. The Portable Document Format (PDF) is the de-facto standard for the exchange of electronic documents and allows for embedding three-dimensional models. Therefore, it is a well suited medium for the visualization and the publication of this kind of data. The generation of the appropriate files has been cumbersome so far. This article presents the first release of a software toolbox which integrates the complete workflow for generating 3D model files and ready-to-publish 3D PDF documents for scholarly publications in a consolidated working environment. It can be used out-of-the-box as a simple working tool or as a basis for specifically tailored solutions. A comprehensive documentation, an example project and a project wizard facilitate the customization. It is available royalty-free and for Windows, MacOS and Linux.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1594/', ['Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Chair of Medical Informatics, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg', u'Medical Applications Team, Method Park Engineering GmbH']]
[u'High incidence of plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance genes among ciprofloxacin-resistant clinical isolates of Enterobacteriaceae at a tertiary care hospital in Puducherry, India', ['Thiyagarajan Yugendran', 'Belgode Narasimha Harish'], u'2016-01-27', u'Background: Plasmid-mediated quinolone resistance (PMQR) has received considerable attention recently. Data analysis in JIPMER revealed 75% of the Enterobacteriaceae isolates to be ciprofloxacin-resistant in 2012. Few reports regarding the prevalence of PMQR are available from India. Hence, the present study was carried out to ascertain the prevalence of PMQR genes among clinical isolates of ciprofloxacin-resistant Enterobacteriaceae in JIPMER. Methods: The study included 642 ciprofloxacin-resistant clinical Enterobacteriaceae isolates. JIPMER hospital\u2019s annual consumption data for fluoroquinolones were retrieved from the Department of Pharmacy. The test isolates were screened for the presence of qnr A, B, D, S and aac(6\u2019)-Ib-cr genes. PMQR-positive isolates alone were tested for the presence of class I (intI1) and class II (intI2) integrons. Randomly selected PCR amplicons were sequenced and analysed using MEGA software. A total of 30 PMQR strains chosen at random were assessed for the transferability of the PMQR genes. Results: Majority of the strains exhibited high MIC values with 106 strains exhibiting MIC value \u02c3256\xb5g/mL. The aac(6\u2019)-Ib-cr gene had the highest prevalence at 64% (414) while, qnrB and qnrS genes were present in 15% (97) and 10% (64) of the isolates respectively. None of the strains were positive for qnrA and qnrD. All PMQR-positive isolates were screened for class I (intI1) and class II (intI2) integrons. Class I integron was found to be predominant among the test isolates with a few of them carrying both the classes of integrons. Transferability of PMQR genes to transconjugants was identified. Discussion: PMQR genes were found to exhibit an increasing trend of prevalence among the clinical isolates in this study. Thus, the need for rational usage of fluoroquinolones and reconsideration of their clinical breakpoints has arisen.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1682/', ['Microbiology', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Jawaharlal Institute for Post-graduate Medical Education and Research']]
[u'The potential effects of climate change on amphibian distribution, range fragmentation and turnover in China', ['Ren-Yan Duan', 'Xiao-Quan Kong', 'Min-Yi Huang', 'Sara Varela', 'Xiang Ji'], u'2016-01-26', u'Many studies predict that climate change will cause species movement and turnover, but few studies have considered the effect of climate change on range fragmentation for current species and/or populations. We used MaxEnt to predict suitable habitat, fragmentation and turnover for 134 amphibian species in China under 40 future climate change scenarios spanning four pathways (RCP2.6, RCP4.5, RCP6 and RCP8.5) and two time periods (the 2050s and 2070s). Our results show that climate change will cause a major shift in the spatial patterns of amphibian diversity. Suitable habitats for over 90% of species will be located in the north of the current range, for over 95% of species in higher altitudes, and for over 75% of species in the west of the current range. The distributions of species predicted to move westwards, southwards and to higher altitudes will contract, while the ranges of the species not showing these trends will expand. Amphibians will lose 20% of their original ranges on average; the distribution outside current ranges will increase by 15%. Climate change will likely modify the spatial configuration of climatically suitable areas. Changes in area and fragmentation of climatically suitable patches are related, which means that species may be simultaneously affected by different stressors as a consequence of climate change.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1681/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Biodiversity and Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University', u'College of Life Sciences, Anqing Normal University', u'Departamento de Ciencias de la Vida, Edificio de Ciencias, Universidad de Alcal\xe1 de Henares', u'Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde, Leibniz Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity Science, Invalidenstra\xdfe 43']]
[u'Evaluation of morphometric characters of honeybee (Apis mellifera L.) populations in Nigeria', ['Usman H Dukku'], u'2016-01-26', u'Samples of workers of honeybee were collected from 41 colonies in nine localities in Nigeria and analysed using classical morphometry. Measurements of 35 morphological characters of body size, colour and pilosity were taken from 10 workers per colony and the data subjected to one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) and principal component analysis. Although ANOVA revealed a considerable variation of morphological characters between the sampled localities, principal component analysis indicated that this variation was not sufficient to group the colonies under investigation into geographically separable groups. Based on the agreement between the results of this study and those of previous studies, it is concluded that the honeybees of this area are morphometrically pure populations of sub-Saharan A. mellifera.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1680/', ['Entomology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University']]
[u'A new GRASP metaheuristic for biclustering of gene expression data', ['Daniele Ferone', 'Angelo Facchiano', 'Anna Marabotti', 'Paola Festa'], u'2016-01-26', u'The term biclustering stands for simultaneous clustering of both genes and conditions. This task has generated considerable interest over the past few decades, particularly related to the analysis of high-dimensional gene expression data in information retrieval, knowledge discovery, and data mining [1]. Since the problem has been shown to be NP-complete, we have recently designed and implemented a GRASP metaheuristic [2,3,4]. The greedy criterion used in the construction phase uses the Euclidean distance to build spanning trees of the graph representing the input data matrix. Once obtained a complete solution, the local search procedure tries to both enlarge the current solution and to improve its H-score exchanging rows and columns. The proposed approach has been tested on 5 synthetic datasets [5]: 1) constant biclusters; 2) constant, upregulated biclusters; 3) shift-scale biclusters; 4) shift biclusters, and 5) scale biclusters. Compared with state-of-the-art competitors, its behaviour is excellent on shift datasets and is very good on all other datasets except for scaled ones. In order to improve its behaviour on scaled data as well and to reduce running times, we have designed and preliminarily tested a variant of the existing GRASP, whose local search phase returns an approximate local optimal solution. The resulting algorithm promises to be a more efficient, general, and robust method for the biclustering of all kinds of possible biological data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1679/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Department of Mathematics and Applications "R. Caccioppoli", University of Napoli FEDERICO II', u'Institute of Food Science, CNR', u'Department of Chemistry and Biology, University of Salerno']]
[u'Problems in using p-curve analysis and text-mining to detect rate of p-hacking and evidential value', ['Dorothy V Bishop', 'Paul A Thompson'], u'2016-01-25', u'Background: The p-curve is a plot of the distribution of p-values reported in a set of scientific studies. Comparisons between ranges of p-values have been used to evaluate fields of research in terms of the extent to which studies have genuine evidential value, and the extent to which they suffer from bias in the selection of variables and analyses for publication, p-hacking. Methods: P-hacking can take various forms. Here we used R code to simulate the use of ghost variables, where an experimenter gathers data on several dependent variables but reports only those with statistically significant effects. We also examined a text-mined dataset used by Head et al. (2015) and assessed its suitability for investigating p-hacking. Results: We first show that when there is ghost p-hacking, the shape of the p-curve depends on whether dependent variables are intercorrelated. For uncorrelated variables, simulated p-hacked data do not give the "p-hacking bump" just below .05 that is regarded as evidence of p-hacking, though there is a negative skew when simulated variables are inter-correlated. The way p-curves vary according to features of underlying data poses problems when automated text mining is used to detect p-values in heterogeneous sets of published papers. Conclusions: The absence of a bump in the p-curve is not indicative of lack of p-hacking. Furthermore, while studies with evidential value will usually generate a right-skewed p-curve, we cannot treat a right-skewed p-curve as an indicator of the extent of evidential value, unless we have a model specific to the type of p-values entered into the analysis. We conclude that it is not feasible to use the p-curve to estimate the extent of p-hacking and evidential value unless there is considerable control over the type of data entered into the analysis. In particular, p-hacking with ghost variables is likely to be missed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1266/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford']]
[u'Aboveground and belowground arthropod communities experience different relative influences of stochastic and deterministic assembly processes following disturbance', ['Scott Ferrenberg', 'Alexander S. Martinez', 'Akasha M. Faist'], u'2016-01-25', u'Background. Understanding patterns of biodiversity is a longstanding challenge in ecology. Similar to other biotic groups, arthropod community structure can be shaped by deterministic and stochastic processes, with limited understanding of what moderates the relative influence of these processes. Disturbances have been noted to alter the relative influence of deterministic and stochastic processes on community assembly in various study systems, implicating ecological disturbances as a potential moderator of these forces. Methods. Using a disturbance gradient along a 5-year chronosequence of insect-induced tree mortality in a subalpine forest of the southern Rocky Mountains, Colorado, USA, we examined changes in community structure and relative influences of deterministic and stochastic processes in the assembly of aboveground (surface and litter-active species) and belowground (species active in organic and mineral soil layers) arthropod communities. Arthropods were sampled for all years of the chronosequence via pitfall traps (aboveground community) and modified Winkler funnels (belowground community) and sorted to morphospecies. Community structure of both communities were assessed via comparisons of morphospecies diversity and assemblages. Assembly processes were inferred from a mixture of linear models and matrix correlations testing for community associations with environmental properties, and from null-deviation models calculated from observed vs. expected levels of species turnover (Beta diversity) among samples. Results. Tree mortality altered community structure in both aboveground and belowground arthropod communities, but null models suggested that aboveground communities experienced greater relative influences of deterministic processes, while the relative influence of stochastic processes increased for belowground communities. Additionally, Mantel tests and linear regression models revealed significant associations between the aboveground arthropod communities and vegetation and soil properties, but no significant association among belowground arthropod communities and environmental factors. Discussion. Our results suggest context-dependent influences of stochastic and deterministic community assembly processes across different fractions of a ground-dwelling arthropod community following a disturbance. This variation in assembly may be linked to contrasting ecological strategies and dispersal rates within above- and below-ground communities. Our findings add to a growing body of evidence indicating concurrent influences of different processes in community assembly, and highlight the need to consider potential variation across different fractions of biotic communities when testing community ecology theory.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1674/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Southwestern Biological Sciences Center, United States Geological Survey', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Purdue University']]
[u'Declarative and Sequential learning in Spanish-speaking children with Language Impairment', ['Paloma Roa-Rojas', 'Juan Silva-Pereyra', 'Donna Jackson-Maldonado', 'Miguel M. A. Villa-Rodriguez', 'Margaret Gillon-Dowens'], u'2016-01-23', u'Language Impairment (LI) is a developmental disorder that mainly manifests impaired language learning and processing. Evidence, largely from English-speaking population studies, has shown that children with LI compared to typically developing (TD) children have low scores in sequential learning tasks but similar performance in declarative learning tasks. According to the declarative/procedural model, LI children compensate for their deficiency in syntactic skills (i.e., deficits in the procedural memory system) by using the declarative memory system (indispensable for vocabulary acquisition). Although there are specific deficits in children with LI depending on the language they speak, it is assumed that this model can explain the shortcomings of such pathology regardless of the language spoken. In the current study, we compared the performance of fifteen school-aged Mexican Spanish-speaking children with LI and twenty TD children during sequential and declarative learning tasks and then analyzed the relationship between their performance in these tasks and their abilities in syntax and semantics. Children with LI displayed lower scores than normal children in the sequential learning task, but no differences were found in declarative learning performance with verbal or visual stimuli. No significant correlations were observed in children with LI between their performance in sequential learning and their abilities in semantics and no significant correlations were observed in TD children between their performance in sequential learning and their abilities in syntax. In contrast, for children with LI, a significant correlation between their performance in declarative learning and their abilities in semantics was observed and for the group of TD children a significant correlation between their performance in declarative learning and their abilities in syntax was observed. This study shows that Spanish-speaking children with LI display a pattern of learning impairment that supports the declarative/procedural model hypothesis. However, they display poor verbal declarative learning skills, probably due to low verbal working memory capacity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1675/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Neurology', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Neurocience Project, School of Higher Studies (F.E.S.) Iztacala, National Autonomous University of Mexico', u'Faculty of Language and Literature, Autonomous University of Quer\xe9taro', u'Department of Neuropsychology, School of Higher Studies (F.E.S.) Zaragoza', u'Neuroscience of Language Laboratory, University of Nottingham']]
[u'The 2013-2016 West African Ebola virus outbreak: Local contexts and future issues', ['Francesco Cecon', 'Peter F McGrath'], u'2016-01-23', u'Ebola is just one example of the many emerging and re-emerging diseases that continue to affect mainly the developing world. We argue that the unprecedented high level of infections and deaths in the 2013-2016 West African Ebola epidemic, together with the more general impact of Ebola and other emerging diseases on societies, is reflective of the unpreparedness of affected countries prior to an outbreak. Typically, the healthcare systems of most low-income countries are inadequately prepared to be able to deal with such large and unexpected outbreaks. In this paper, we attempt to analyse the emergence and spread of the West African Ebola epidemic, reviewing the situation in Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone prior to the 2013-2016 outbreak. We also highlight some of the additional societal burdens that the outbreak has placed on these countries. By drawing lessons from this epidemic, as well as case studies of other (re-)emerging epidemic infections through a combination of literature searches and news reports, combined with the views of 10 international experts, we develop eight actions that might help potentially susceptible countries and the international community to prevent, contain or better respond to possible future outbreaks.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1678/', ['Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'InterAcademy Medical Panel']]
[u'Temporal regulation of proteome profile in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster', ['Perumal Subramanian', 'Jaime J Jayapalan', 'Puteri Abdul-Rahman', 'Manjula Arumugam', 'Onn Hashim'], u'2016-01-23', u'Background. Diurnal rhythms of protein synthesis controlled by the biological clock underlie rhythmic physiology in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster. Self-sustained autonomous circadian oscillations were documented all over the organs of the fly. In this study, we conducted a proteome-wide investigation of rhythmic protein accumulation in D. melanogaster. Materials and Methods. We have used the whole fly for the proteomic study as performed in typical proteotypic peptide (PTP) studies and followed the same protocol with trypsin digestion. Total protein collected from fly samples harvested at 4h intervals over the 24-h period were subjected to two dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis, trypsin digestion and MS/MS analysis. Protein spots/clusters were identified with MASCOT search engine and Swiss-Prot database. Expression of proteins was documented as percentage of volume contribution using the Image Master 2D Platinum software. Results. A total of 124 protein spots/clusters were identified using MS/MS analysis. A significant variation in the expression of 88 proteins over the 24-h period was observed. Our present results suggested that the synthesis/regulation of numerous proteins is regulated by the biological clock in D. melanogaster. Relatively higher number of proteins was upregulated during nighttime as compared to daytime. Conclusion. As these rhythmically varying proteins/enzymes involve in metabolism, muscle activities, ion channels, protein synthesis, redox homeostasis and apoptosis our results indicate that these cellular processes could be regulated at the level of temporal expression of protein profile.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1677/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Entomology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biochemistry and Biotechnology, Annamalai University', u'University of Malaya Centre for Proteomics Research (UMCPR), Department of Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya']]
[u'The wings before the bird: an evaluation of flapping-based locomotory hypotheses in bird antecedents', ['T. Alexander Dececchi', 'Hans CE Larsson', 'Michael B Habib'], u'2016-01-23', u'Background. Powered flight is implicated as a major driver for the success of birds. Here we examine the effectiveness of three hypothesized pathways for the evolution of the flight stroke, the forelimb motion that powers aerial locomotion, in a terrestrial setting across a range of stem and basal avians: flap running, Wing Assisted Incline Running (WAIR), and wing-assisted leaping. Methods. Using biomechanical mathematical models based on known aerodynamic principals and in vivo experiments and ground trothed using extant avians we seek to test if an incipient flight stroke may have contributed sufficient force to permit flap running, WAIR, or leaping takeoff along the phylogenetic lineage from Coelurosauria to birds. Results. None of these behaviours were found to meet the biomechancial threshold requirements before Paraves. Neither was there a continuous trend of refinement for any of these biomechanical performances across phylogeny nor a signal of universal applicability near the origin of birds. None of these flap-based locomotory models appear to have been a major influence on pre-flight character acquisition such as pennaceous feathers, suggesting non-locomotory behaviours, and less stringent locomotory behaviours such as balancing and braking, played a role in the evolution of the maniraptoran wing and nascent flight stroke. We find no support for widespread prevalence of WAIR in non-avian theropods, but can\u2019t reject its presence in large winged, small-bodied taxa like Microraptor and Archaeopteryx. Discussion. Using our first principles approach we find that \u201cnear flight\u201d locomotor behaviors are most sensitive to wing area, and that non-locomotory related selection regimes likely expanded wing area well before WAIR and other such behaviors were possible in derived avians. These results suggest that investigations of the drivers for wing expansion and feather elongation in theropods need not be intrinsically linked to locomotory adaptations, and this separation is critical for our understanding of the origin of powered flight and avian evolution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1676/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Geological Sciences, Queens University', u'Redpath Museum, McGill University', u'Keck School of Medicine of USC, Department of Cell and Neurobiology, University of Southern California', u'Dinosaur Institute, Natural History Museum of Los Angeles']]
[u'Sentieon DNA pipeline for variant detection - Software-only solution, over 20\xd7 faster than GATK 3.3 with identical results', ['Jessica A. Weber', 'Rafael Aldana', 'Brendan D. Gallagher', 'Jeremy S. Edwards'], u'2016-01-22', u'Sentieon DNAseq Software is a suite of tools for running DNA sequencing secondary analyses. The Sentieon DNAseq Software produces identical results to the Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK) Best Practice Workflow using HaplotypeCaller, with more than a 20-fold increase in processing speed on the same hardware.\nThis paper presents a benchmark analysis of the GATK and Sentieon DNAseq software packages using publically available datasets from the 1000 genomes database, and includes speed comparisons and output concordance analyses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1672/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Biology, University of New Mexico', u'Sentieon Inc.', u'Department of Chemistry & Chemical Biology, University of New Mexico', u'Department of Molecular Genetics and Microbiology, University of New Mexico', u'Department of Chemical & Nuclear Engineering, University of New Mexico']]
[u'A trait-based approach to bacterial biofilms in soil', ['Jay T Lennon', 'Brent K Lehmkuhl'], u'2016-01-22', u'A trait-based approach focuses on attributes of taxa that influence the structure and function of communities. Biofilm production is a trait that is common among microorganisms in a wide range of environmental, engineered, and host-associated ecosystems. In this study, we present experimental evidence linking biofilm production to moisture availability, which is one of the greatest challenges for microorganisms living in the soil environment. Using Pseudomonas aeruginosa as a model system, first, we demonstrate that biofilm production is a response trait that affects bacterial performance under dry conditions. In addition to increasing survivorship, biofilm production affected the desiccation phenotype by shifting the niche space and reducing the minimum water potential needed to sustain a net-positive growth rate (\u03a8*). Although the allocation of resources to biofilms is thought to be costly, we found we no evidence to support a hypothesized trade-off between bacterial fitness and biofilm production along a moisture gradient. Second, we demonstrated that biofilm production is an effect trait. Specifically, biofilm production increased soil water retention in soils that were exposed to a series of drying and rewetting cycles. Although this form of niche construction via the release of public goods should affect species interactions, we found no evidence that biofilm production modified the performance of another soil bacterium. Together, our results support the view that biofilm production is an important functional trait that may contribute to the distribution, abundance, and functioning of microorganisms in soil environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1637/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Microbiology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Department of Biology, Indiana University']]
[u'Morphometric comparisons of plant-mimetic juvenile fish associated with plant debris observed on Kuchierabu-jima Island, southern Japan', ['Alexya C Queiroz', 'Yoichi Sakai', 'Marcelo Vallinoto', 'Breno Barros'], u'2016-01-22', u'The general morphological shape of plant-resembling fish and plant parts were compared using a geometric morphometrics approach. Lobotes surinamensis (Lobotidae), Platax orbicularis (Ephippidae) and Canthidermis maculata (Balistidae), three plant-mimetic fish species, were compared during their early developmental stages with accompanying plant parts (i.e. leaves of several taxa) in the coastal subtropical waters of Kuchierabu-jima Island, closely facing the Kuroshio Current. The degree of similarity shared between the plant parts and co-occurring fish species was quantified, however fish remained morphologically distinct from their plant models. Such similarities were corroborated by a linear model, in which relative body areas of fish and plant models were strongly interdependent. Our results strengthen the paradigm that morphological clues can lead to ecological evidence to allow predictions of behavioural and habitat choice by mimetic fish, according to the degree of similarity shared with their respective models. The resemblance to plant parts detected in the three fish species may provide fitness advantages via convergent evolutionary effects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1673/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Instituto de Estudos Costeiros, Laborat\xf3rio de Evolu\xe7\xe3o, Universidade Federal do Par\xe1', u'Graduate School of Biosphere Science, Hiroshima University', u'Centro de Investiga\xe7\xe3o em Biodiversidade e Recursos Gen\xe9ticos, Universidade do Porto']]
[u'De novo genome assembly of Geosmithia morbida, the causal agent of thousand cankers disease', ['Taruna Aggarwal', 'Anthony Westbrook', 'Kirk Broders', 'Keith Woeste', 'Matthew D MacManes'], u'2016-01-21', u'Geosmithia morbida is a filamentous ascomycete that causes Thousand Cankers Disease in the eastern black walnut tree. This pathogen is commonly found in the western U.S.; however, recently the disease was also detected in several eastern states where the black walnut lumber industry is concentrated. G. morbida is one of two known phytopathogens within the genus Geosmithia, and it is vectored into the host tree via the walnut twig beetle. We present the first de novo draft genome of G. morbida. It is 26.5 Mbp in length and contains less than 1% repetitive elements. The genome possesses an estimated 6,273 genes, 277 of which are predicted to encode proteins with unknown functions. Approximately 31.5% of the proteins in G. morbida are homologous to proteins involved in pathogenicity, and 5.6% of the proteins contain signal peptides that indicate these proteins are secreted. Several studies have investigated the evolution of pathogenicity in pathogens of agricultural crops; forest fungal pathogens are often neglected because research efforts are focused on food crops. G. morbida is one of the few tree phytopathogens to be sequenced, assembled and annotated. The first draft genome of G. morbida serves as a valuable tool for comprehending the underlying molecular and evolutionary mechanisms behind pathogenesis within the Geosmithia genus.\nKeywords: de novo genome assembly, pathogenesis, forest pathogen, black walnut, walnut twig beetle.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1671/', ['Genomics', 'Mycology'], [u'Department of Molecular, Cellular, & Biomedical Sciences, University of New Hampshire', u'Department of Computer Science, University of New Hampshire', u'Department of Bioagricultural Sciences and Pest Management, Colorado State University', u'Hardwood Tree Improvement and Regeneration Center, USDA Forest Service']]
[u'Keemei: cloud-based validation of tabular bioinformatics file formats in Google Sheets', ['Jai Ram Rideout', 'John H Chase', 'Evan Bolyen', 'Gail Ackermann', 'Antonio Gonzalez', 'Rob Knight', 'J Gregory Caporaso'], u'2016-01-21', u'Bioinformatics software often requires human-generated tabular text files as input and have specific requirements for how those data are formatted. Users frequently manage these data in spreadsheet programs, which is convenient for researchers who are compiling the requisite information because the spreadsheet programs can easily be used on different platforms including laptops and tablets, and because they provide a familiar interface. It is increasingly common for many different researchers to be involved in compiling these data, including study coordinators, clinicians, lab technicians, and bioinformaticians. As a result, many research groups are shifting toward using cloud-based spreadsheet programs, such as Google Sheets, which support concurrent editing of a single spreadsheet by different users working on different platforms. Often most of the researchers who are entering data will not be familiar with the formatting requirements of the bioinformatics programs that will be used, so validating and correcting file formats is often a bottleneck prior to beginning bioinformatics analysis. We present Keemei, a Google Sheets Add-on for validating tabular files used in bioinformatics analyses. Keemei is available free of charge from Google\u2019s Chrome Web Store. Keemei can be installed and run on any web browser supported by Google Sheets. Keemei currently supports validation of two widely used tabular bioinformatics formats, the QIIME sample metadata mapping file format, and the Spatially Referenced Genetic Data (SRGD) format, but is designed to easily support the addition of others. Keemei will save researchers time and frustration by providing a convenient interface for tabular bioinformatics file format validation. By allowing everyone involved with data entry for a project to easily validate their data, it will reduce the validation and formatting bottlenecks that are commonly encountered when human-generated data files are first used with a bioinformatics system. Simplifying the validation of essential tabular data files, such as sample metadata, will reduce common errors and thereby improve the quality and reliability of research outcomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1670/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego', u'Department of Computer Science & Engineering, University of California, San Diego', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University']]
[u'Indolo[2,3-b]quinoline derivatives as novel promising antitumor agents', ['Lukasz Kaczmarek', 'Katarzyna  Badowska-Rosonek', 'Anna Jaromin', 'Wojciech uniewski', 'Wanda Peczynska-Czoch', 'Katarzyna Sidoryk', 'Wojciech Szczepek', 'Joanna Wietrzyk', 'Bogdan Zagrodzki'], u'2016-01-21', u'In the search for novel antineoplastic compounds we have found that four-membered, linear 5,11-dimethyl -5H- indolo[2,3-b]quinoline (DIMIQ) reveals cytostatic activity in vitro and moderate antitumor activity in vivo in mice melanoma B16 as well as leukemias L1210 and P388. Preliminary studies showed that DIMIQ stabilizes DNA-topoisomerase II complex. Some years later indolo[2,3-b]quinoline was found as an alkaloid neocryptolepine in the West African shrub Cryptolepis sanguinolenta. Unfortunately, DIMIQ\u2019s high toxicity, lack of selectivity and very low solubility in aqueous media seriously limit the practical use of this compound as an anticancer drug. Extensive research on the structure-activity relationships of different indolo[2,3-b]quinoline derivatives showed that the position and type of the substituent is conclusive both to the antitumor activity and general toxicity of the compound. These studies led us to discover derivatives of DIMIQ which exhibit very low toxicity against normal cells and are highly toxic against selected human tumors. These derivatives are soluble in water and some of them are able to overcome multidrug resistance in human tumors cells.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1669/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute', u'Faculty of Biotechnology, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor', u'Faculty of Chemistry, University of St. Andrews', u'Department of Experimental Oncology, Institute of Immunology and Experimental Therapy, Polish Academy of Sciences']]
[u'A computational analysis of Salt Overly Sensitive 1 homologs in halophytes and glycophytes', ['Cherin Kim', 'Ray Bressan'], u'2016-01-21', u'Soil salinity is one of the most serious impediments to global agricultural productivity. Although most terrestrial plants are glycophytes which cannot tolerate high salt concentrations, a small fraction of species are halophytes. Exactly what allows these extremophile plants to survive in saline conditions is not yet well understood. Several studies have established the Salt Overly Sensitive (SOS) pathway as the canonical model for the mechanism responsible for salt tolerance. The SOS pathway involves interplay among Na+-H+ antiporters for transporting sodium, and the activation of the kinase that phosphorylates the transporter. Among them, SOS1, a plasma membrane Na+-H+ antiporter, has been shown to be a critical component for maintaining salt homeostasis by pumping sodium out of cells upon activation. Therefore, it is of great interest to evaluate any differences of SOS1 in halophytes as compared to glycophytes. Here we report a computational analysis of the primary and secondary structures of eight halophytes and seven glycophytes. ClustalW alignment of the protein sequences as a whole reveals no regions conserved specifically in only halophytes or in only glycophytes. In addition, the key regulatory residues at the C-terminus of SOS1, S1136 and S1138, which were shown to be the phosphorylation sites by the kinase SOS2, were completely conserved in all 15 halophytes and glycophytes. The four amino acids, G136, R365, G777, and G784, in which alterations affect the function of SOS1, are mostly conserved in the 15 species. The 14-3-3 binding site in the C-terminus which is important in the phosphorylation step of SOS1 in the SOS signal transduction cascade is also well conserved. Furthermore, the number of transmembrane helices for each species is between 9 and 12 and there is no significant difference between halophytes and glycophytes. If halophytes present any special feature of SOS1, it likely involves the presence (halophytes) or absence (glycophytes) of a SOS1-interacting component.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1668/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Plant Science'], [u'West Lafayette Jr./Sr. High School', u'Department of Horticulture and Landscape Architecture, Purdue University']]
[u'Green software engineering: the curse of methodology', ['Abram Hindle'], u'2016-01-21', u'Computer Science often seems distant from its natural science cousins, especially software engineering which feels closer to sociology and psychology than to physics. Physical measurements are often rare in software engineering, except in a few niches. One such important niche is that of software energy consumption, green mining, green IT, and sustainable computing, which all fall under the umbrella of green software engineering. With the physical measurement of energy consumption comes all of the limitations of measurement and experimentation that exist in the natural sciences and engineering. Issues abound, from attribution of energy use, isolation of components, to replicable experiments. These get further complicated by cloud computing whereby systems are virtualized and attribution of resource usage is a serious issue. Thus in this work we discuss the current state of software energy consumption, and where will it go.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1470/', ['Emerging Technologies', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Sequencing and characterization of mitochondrial DNA genome for Brama japonica (Perciformes: Bramidae) with phylogenetic consideration', ['Fenfang Chen', 'Hongyu Ma', 'Chunyan Ma', 'Heng Zhang', 'Mengdi Zhao', 'Yongyong Meng', 'Hongqing Wei', 'Lingbo Ma'], u'2016-01-21', u'In the present study, we isolated and characterized the complete mitochondrial genome sequence of Brama japonica by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and primer-walking sequencing. The complete DNA was 17,009 bp in length and contained a typical set of 13 protein-coding genes, 22 transfer RNA genes, 2 ribosomal RNA genes and a long putative control region. The gene organization and nucleotide composition of complete mitogenome were identical to those of other Bramidae fishes. In contrast, the 12S rRNA gene contained a big poly C structure which was larger than those from other Bramidae species. Of 37 genes, twenty-eight were encoded by heavy strand, while nine were encoded by light strand. Among the 13 protein-coding genes, twelve employed ATG as start codon, while only COI utilized GTG as start codon. In the control region, the terminal associated sequence (TAS), the central and conserved sequence block (CSB-E and CSB-D) and a variable domain (CSB-1, CSB-2 and CSB-3) were identified, while the typical central conserved CSB-F could not be detected in B. japonica. The putative OL region can fold into a conserved secondary structure and the conserved motif (5\u2019-GCCGG-3\u2019) was found at the base of the stem in tRNACys. The overall nucleotide composition of this genome was 26.43% for A, 16.71% for G, 31.35% for C, and 25.50% for T, with a high A+T content of 51.93%. From the NJ phylogenetic tree, we can find that B. japonica was together with other five Bramidae species formed a monophyletic group among 24 species. This work provided a set of useful data for studying on population genetic diversity and molecular evolution in Bramidae and related fish species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1667/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology'], [u'East China Sea Fisheries Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences']]
[u'Advertisement call and genetic structure conservatism : good news for an endangered Neotropical frog', ['Lucas R Forti', 'William P Costa', 'Lucas B Martins', 'Carlos H L Nunes-de-Almeida', 'Luis Felipe Toledo'], u'2016-01-21', u'Background. Many amphibian species are negatively affected by anthropogenic habitat change. Populations distributed over modified landscapes may be subject to local extinction or may be relegated to remaining, likely isolated and possibly degraded, patches of available habitat. Isolation without gene flow can lead to variability in phenotypic traits due to differences in local selective pressures, such as environmental structure, microclimate or site-specific species assemblages. Methods. Here we tested this microevolution hypothesis by evaluating the acoustic parameters of 349 advertisement calls from 15 males representing six populations of the endangered species Proceratophrys moratoi. In addition, we analyzed the genetic distance between populations and the genetic diversity by haplotype network. We carried out a cluster analysis by Bray-Curtis index of similarity using acoustic data by UPGMA method. We correlated acoustic dissimilarities (calculated by Euclidean distance) with geographic and genetic distances among populations. Results. Spectral traits of the advertisement call of P. moratoi presented lower coefficients of variation than did temporal traits both within and among males. Cluster analyses placed individuals without population and geographical distance congruence, but recovered the species topology in relation to sister species. The genetic distance was low among populations: it did not exceed 0.4% for the most distant populations, and was not correlated with acoustic distance. Discussion. Both acoustic features and genetic sequences are highly conserved, suggesting that populations may be connected by recent migrations or that they are subject to stabilizing selective forces. Although future studies are needed, these findings contribute to a growing body of literature suggesting that this species would be a good candidate for a reintroduction program without negative effects on communication or even genetic heritage.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1666/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Laborat\xf3rio Multiusu\xe1rio de Bioac\xfastica (LMBio) e Laborat\xf3rio de Hist\xf3ria Natural de Anf\xedbios Brasileiros (LaHNAB), Departamento de Biologia Animal, Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Estadual de Campinas', u'Departamento de Biologia Estrutural e Funcional, Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Estadual de Campinas', u'Faculdade de Ci\xeancias Integradas do Pontal, Laborat\xf3rio de Taxonomia, Sistem\xe1tica e Ecologia de Anuros Neotropicais, Universidade Federal de Uberl\xe2ndia', u'Departamento de Biologia, Programa de P\xf3s-Gradua\xe7\xe3o em Biologia Comparada, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo', u'Laborat\xf3rio de Hist\xf3ria Natural de Anf\xedbios Brasileiros (LaHNAB), Departamento de Biologia Animal, Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Estadual de Campinas']]
[u'Meta-analysis of published frequencies of the first decade of field-based mortality and seropositivity in avian species affected by West Nile virus in the United States', ['Claudio Verdugo', 'Claudio Fuentes', 'Maureen T Long'], u'2016-01-21', u'A meta-analysis approach was used to extract the frequency of avian seropositivity to West Nile Virus (WNV) (fS) and mortality from WNV (fM) from the literature published between the years 2001-2010. The indices, fS and fM, were used to represent states of resistance (seropositivity with no or limited mortality) and susceptibility in birds (detection of WNV with mortality), respectively. The indices fS and fM were calculated for each species across publications into different taxonomic strata, year, combined time intervals, and geographic location. The data were analyzed by logistic regression to assess the status of WNV infection amongst different avian taxonomic strata and infer changes of WNV infection status over time. Using level of peak viremia as a proxy for host competence among the avian species, the value of the phylogenetic signal was tested by Blomberg\xb4s K after transformation of the branch lengths. Sixty-three publications were used for the final dataset representing studies performed from 1999 to 2008 and published between 2001-2010. Analysis of both fS and fM demonstrated variability in avian responses to WNV across order, family, and species. When the data were analyzed for fS, the families and species of the orders Ciconiiformes, Galliformes, and Columbiformes had significantly higher fS than that of the Passeriformes (P < 0.0001). Within the Passeriformes, the Corvidae and Cardinalidae families had higher fS than any other family. When the data were analyzed for fM, dead Corvidae and Paridae were most likely to test positive for virus. Temporally, a positive trend of increasing fS was detected in several avian species while the American crow (Corvus brachyrhynchos) was the only species with a significant negative trend in fM (P = 0.042). Little to no interaction of geographic location with time was detected within species of birds. A weak but significant phylogenetic signal corresponded to host range, suggesting that the rate of spread of WNV through the avian community was partially dependent of the relatedness of hosts. The meta-data predicted that species within families, and even order, were heterogeneous in their disease susceptibility traits to WNV. The Passeriformes contributed most to this variation. Several trends in various families and orders of birds were observed from which new studies could be pursued. The pooling of data was key in detecting areas where data was lacking and identified aspects of avian responses to WNV could be expanded.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1665/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Instituto de Patolog\xeda Animal / Facultad de Ciencias Veterinarias, Universidad Austral de Chile', u'Department of Statistics, Oregon State University', u'Department of Infectious Diseases and Pathology/Emerging Diseases & Arbopathogens Research and Training Laboratory/University of Florida College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Florida']]
[u'Potential contribution of fish restocking to the recovery of deteriorated coral reefs: an alternative restoration method?', ['Uri Obolski', 'Lilach Hadany', 'Avigdor Abelson'], u'2016-01-21', u"Counteracting the worldwide trend of coral reef degeneration is a major challenge for the scientific community. A crucial management approach to minimizing stress effects on healthy reefs and helping the recovery of disturbed reefs is reef protection. However, the current rapid decline of the world's reefs suggests that protection might be insufficient as a viable stand-alone management approach for some reefs. We thus suggest that the ecological restoration of coral reefs (CRR) should be considered as a valid component of coral reef management, in addition to protection, if the applied method is economically applicable and scalable. This theoretical study examines the potential applicability and outcomes of restocking grazers as a restoration tool for coral reef recovery \u2013 a tool that has not been applied so far in reef restoration projects. We studied the effect of restocking grazing fish as a restoration method using a mathematical model of degrading reefs, and analyzed the financial outcomes of the restocking intervention. The results suggest that applying this restoration method, in addition to protection, can facilitate reef recovery. Moreover, our analysis suggests that the restocking approach almost always becomes profitable within several years. Considering the relatively low cost of this restoration approach and the feasibility of mass production of herbivorous fish, we suggest that this approach should be considered and examined as an additional viable restoration tool for coral reefs.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1664/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'The Department of Molecular Biology and Ecology of Plants, Tel Aviv University', u'The department of zoology, Tel Aviv University']]
[u'Bayesian multinomial ordered categorical response model for the analysis of length of hospital stay', ['Lawrence N Kazembe'], u'2016-01-21', u'Length of hospital stay (LOS) is of primary importance in health services research because it is directly related to health care management and cost of health care. In some epidemiological settings the actual length of stay is not directly observed but it is known to have happened in a particular interval or for simple epidemiological interpretation time is categorized into ordered categorical responses. In this paper, we focus our attention on cumulative regression models for ordinal responses to analyze length of hospital stay for children admitted to a paediatric ward for malaria. Such models exploit the ordered scale of the outcomes. We approach our analysis using a Bayesian probit model. Our model incorporated random effects for hospital specific heterogeneity, while simultaneously investigating nonlinear effects in covariates within the general framework of semi-parametric regression models. Findings indicate children who died had relatively shorter LOS, which suggest worse prognosis at admission. Calendar time effects indicated changing seasonal effects with high peaks in wet season and low peak in dry season, largely explained by malaria transmission patterns. Age showed deviation from linearity, and early discharge was associated with much older children than infants.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1663/', ['Mathematical Biology', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Statistics and Population Studies, University of Namibia']]
[u'Preliminary characterization of little brown bats (Myotis lucifugus) immune MHC II DRB alleles using next-generation sequencing', ['Jonathan M. Palmer', 'Leah K. Berkman', 'Paula E Marquardt', 'Deahn M. Donner', 'Michelle A. Jusino', 'Daniel L. Lindner'], u'2016-01-21', u'Genes of the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) are of great interest to molecular ecologists due to their role in the immune response and the complex evolutionary mechanisms affecting their abundance and distribution. Next generation sequencing (NGS) offers the best potential for characterizing such genes by overcoming the low throughput constraints associated with traditional cloning and Sanger sequencing. However, available bioinformatics methods to effectively filter MHC data acquired through NGS are complex and have not been widely applied. Here we present a method to sequence MHC II DRB of the little brown bat (Myotis lucifugus) using semi-conductor sequencing on the Ion Torrent Personal Genome Machine (PGM) and subsequently analyze the data using a modified UPARSE clustering algorithm. As proof of concept, preliminary characterization of the MHC II DRB alleles of 15 little brown bats was accomplished through PGM sequencing. Analysis identified 24 MHC II DRB alleles overall and a high number of alleles per individual (average 6.8 \xb1 3.5, range 1 \u2013 12), indicating little brown bats may have among the highest number of MHC DRB loci documented in mammals. Our method provides a framework for studying MHC II DRB diversity in little brown bats, which are experiencing significant population declines in North America due to the recent emergence of white-nose syndrome (WNS).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1662/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology', 'Immunology'], [u'Center for Forest Mycology Research, US Forest Service', u'College of Environmental Science and Forestry, State University of New York', u'Institute for Applied Ecosystem Studies, US Forest Service']]
[u'Metagenomic analysis exploring taxonomic and functional diversity of soil microbial communities in Chilean vineyards and surrounding native forests', ['Luis E Castaneda', 'Olga Barbosa'], u'2016-01-21', u'Mediterranean biomes are biodiversity hotspots and also have been historically related to wine production. During the last decades, land occupied by vineyards has increased considerably threatening these Mediterranean ecosystems. Land use change and agricultural management affect soil biodiversity, changing physical and chemical properties of soil. These changes may have consequences on wine production, especially because soil is a key component of wine identity or terroir. Here, we characterized the taxonomic and functional diversity of bacterial and fungal communities present in soil from vineyards in Central Chile. To accomplish this goal we collected soil samples from organic vineyards from Central Chile and employed a shotgun metagenomic approach. Additionally, we also studied the surrounding native forest as a picture of the soil conditions prior to the establishment of the vineyard. Our metagenomic analyses revealed that both habitats shared most of the soil microbial species. In general, bacteria were more abundant than fungi in both types of habitats, including soil-living genera such as Candidatus Solibacter, Bradyrhizobium and Gibberella. Interestingly, we found presence of lactic bacteria and fermenting yeasts in soil, which are key during wine production. However, their abundances were extremely low, suggesting unlikeness of soil as a potential reservoir in Chilean vineyards. Regarding functional diversity, we found that genes for metabolism of amino acids, fatty acids, nucleotides and secondary metabolism were enriched in forest soils, whereas genes for metabolism of potassium, proteins and miscellaneous functions were more abundant in vineyard soils. Our results suggest that organic vineyards have similar soil community composition than forest habitats. Additionally, we suggest that native forests surrounding vineyards may be acting as microbial reservoir buffering the land conversion. We conclude that the implementation of environmentally friendly practices by the wine industry may help to maintain the microbial diversity and ecosystem functions related to natural habitats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1661/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Instituto de Ciencias Ambientales y Evolutivas, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Austral de Chile', u'Instituto de Biolog\xeda & Biodiversidad', u'Instituto de Ecologia & Biodiversidad (IEB-Chile)']]
[u'Selenium uptake, toxicity and reduction in Flammulina velutipes supplied with selenite', ['Jipeng Wang', 'Bo Wang', 'Dan Zhang', 'Yanhong Wu'], u'2016-01-21', u'Recently, selenium (Se) enriched mushrooms have been exploited as diary Se supplements, but our knowledge of the metabolism process during the Se enrichment process is far from complete. In this study, the uptake, toxicity and reduction of selenite in a widely cultivated mushroom, Flammulina velutipes, was investigated. The results showed that pH variation (from 5.5 to 7.5), metabolic inhibitor (0.1 mM 2,4-DNP) and P or S starvation led to 11%-26% decreases in the selenite uptake rate of F. velutipes. This indicates that a minor portion of the selenite uptake was metabolism dependent, whereas a carrier-facilitated passive transport may be crucial. Growth inhibition of F. velutipes initiated at 0.1 mM selenite (11% decrease in the growth rate) and complete growth inhibition occurred at 3 mM selenite. A selenite concentration of 0.03-0.1 mM was recommended to maintain the balance between mycelium production and Se enrichment. F. velutipes was capable of reducing selenite to Se(0) nanoparticles, possibly as a detoxification mechanism. This process depended on both selenite concentration and metabolism activity. Overall, the data obtained provided some basic information for the cultivation of the selenized F. velutipes, and highlighted the opportunity of using mushrooms for the production of Se(0) nanoparticles.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1660/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Mycology'], [u'Key Laboratory of Mountain Surface Process and Ecological Regulation, Institute of Mountain Hazards and Environment, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'University of Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Soil and Fertilizer Institute, Sichuan Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'Putting the ghost in the machine: exploring human-machine hybrid virtual patient systems for health professional education', ['David Topps', 'Michelle L Cullen', 'Nishan Sharma', 'Rachel H Ellaway'], u'2016-01-21', u'Background: Virtual patient authoring tools provide a simple means of creating rich and complex online cases for health professional students to explore. However, the responses available to the learner are usually predefined, which limits the utility of virtual patients, both in terms of replayability and adaptability. Using artificial intelligence or natural language processing is expensive and hard to design. This project description lays out an alternative approach to making virtual patients more adaptable and interactive. Methods: Using OpenLabyrinth, an open-source educational research platform, we modified the interface and functionality to provide a human-computer hybrid interface, where a human facilitator can interact with learners from within the online case scenario. Using a design-based research approach, we have iteratively improved our case designs, workflows and scripts and interface designs. The next step is to robustly test this new functionality in action. This report describes the piloting and background as well as the rationale, objectives, software development implications, learning designs, and educational intervention designs for the planned study. Results: The costs and time required to modify the software were much lower than anticipated. Facilitators have been able to handle text input from multiple concurrent learners. Learners were not discouraged waiting for the facilitator to respond. Discussion: The implementation and use of this new technique seems very promising and there are a great many ways in which it might be used for training and assessment purposes. This report also explores the provisional implications arising from the study so far.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1659/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computer Aided Design'], [u'Family Medicine, University of Calgary', u'Faculty of Nursing, University of Calgary', u'W21C, University of Calgary', u'Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary']]
[u'Genetic characterization of colorectal cancer using a next generation sequencing approach to identify a specific pattern of somatic alterations in tumors arising from different anatomic sites', ['Carmelo Laudanna', 'Gianluca Santamaria', 'Simona Migliozzi', 'Duarte Mendes Oliveira', 'Donatella Malanga', 'Rosario Sacco', 'Antonia Rizzuto', 'Giuseppe Viglietto'], u'2016-01-20', u'Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third leading cause of cancer-related deaths worldwide, with nearly 1.4 million new cases diagnosed in 2012. CRC results from the accumulation of multiple genetic and epigenetic aberrations. Tumor localization in the large intestine tract determines different surgical approaches and treatment options. Considering the heterogeneous nature of these tumors we hypothesized that different patterns of molecular alterations could be associated with a specific anatomical location. To identify distinct genomic alterations (e.g, copy number variations and mutations) associated to different CRC anatomical sites we sequenced 32 CRCs samples from different location (right-sided, left-sided etc.) using the Ion AmpliSeq\u2122 Comprehensive Cancer Panel that covered the whole coding sequence of 409 tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes frequently altered in cancer. Interestingly left-sided tumors were generally more altered respect to right-sided ones. Cluster analysis of all samples allowed the identification of 21-gene core that were significantly mutated in all sample groups. As expected, KRAS and APC mutations were frequently in the tumors resected from different anatomical localizations. Unsupervised analysis of copy number variations reveals a core of 160-gene significantly altered. In addition to the expected SRC, MYC and CEBPA, we found interestingly genes in validation status. Despite missing a significant number of cases, gene panel provides a solid alternative approach to WES in order to characterize a signature of alterations correlated with CRC tumor and the identification of novel biomarkers in colorectal carcinoma that could be used as potential clinical target.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1658/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, Magna Gr\xe6cia University of Catanzaro', u'CIS, Centro Interdipartimentale dei Servizi, Magna Gr\xe6cia University of Catanzaro', u'Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University Magna Gr\xe6cia of Catanzaro']]
[u'Nest site selection and nutritional provision through excreta: a form of parental care in a tropical endogeic earthworm', ['Angel I. Ortiz-Ceballos', 'Diana Perez-Staples', 'Paulino Perez-Rodriguez'], u'2016-01-17', u'Nest construction is a common form of parental care in soil organisms. However, it is unknown whether the tropical earthworm Pontoscolex corethrurus selects sites for nest construction when the nutritional quality of the soil is irregular. Here we studied the reproductive behaviour and nest site selection of P. corethrurus. In tridimensional terrariums we evaluated the combined effect of the food quality (soil only = S, soil+grass = G, soil+legume = L) and soil depth (0-9 cm = Shallow, 10-18 cm = Intermediate, 19-27 cm = Deep) in a factorial 32 design. The number and biomass of cocoons, progeny and the production of internal and external excreta were evaluated. The nutritional quality and depth of soil and their interaction had a significant effect on nest site construction and the deposition of internal excreta. P. corethrurus built a higher amount of nests in the S-Intermediate and G-Intermediate treatments while more internal excreta were found in the L-Intermediate treatment. Offspring biomass was positively associated with internal excreta in the S (soil only) and G (soil + grass) treatments. We conclude that P. corethrurus shows parental care when selecting sites for its offspring in the form of nest construction and excreta deposition. Further research is needed on the ecological conditions that favour the evolution of parental care in earthworms according to their ecological category (anecic, endogeic and anecic).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1657/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Soil Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Instituto de Biotecnolog\xeda y Ecolog\xeda Aplicada, Universidad Veracruzana', u'Programa de Estad\xedstica, Colegio de Postgraduados']]
[u'Acoustic monitoring indicates a positive relationship between calling frequency and spawning in captive spotted seatrout (Cynoscion nebulosus)', ['Eric W Montie', 'Matt Hoover', 'Chris Kehrer', 'Justin Yost', 'Karl Brenkert', "Timothy O'Donnell", 'Mike R Denson'], u'2016-01-17', u'Background: Fish sound production is widespread throughout many families. Agonistic and courtship behaviors are the most common reasons for fish sound production. Yet, there is still some debate on how sound production and spawning are correlated in many soniferous fish species. In the present study, our aim was to determine if a quantitative relationship exists between calling and egg deposition in captive spotted seatrout (Cynoscion nebulosus). This type of data is essential if scientists and managers plan to use acoustic metrics to identify spawning aggregations over large spatial scales and monitor reproductive activity over annual and decadal timeframes.Methods: Wild caught spotted seatrout were held in three laboratory tanks equipped with long-term acoustic loggers (i.e., DSG-Oceans) to record underwater sound throughout an entire, simulated reproductive season. Acoustic monitoring occurred from April 13 to December 19, 2012 for Tank 1 and from April 13 to November 21, 2012 for Tanks 2 and 3. DSG-Oceans were scheduled to record sound for 2 min every 20 min. We enumerated the number of calls, calculated the received sound pressure level (SPL in dB re 1 \xb5Pa; between 50 and 2000 Hz) of each 2 min \u2018wav file\u2019, and counted the number of eggs every morning in each tank.Results: Spotted seatrout produced three distinct call types characterized as \u201cdrums\u201d, \u201cgrunts\u201d, and \u201cstaccatos\u201d. Spotted seatrout calling increased as the light cycle shifted from 13.5 to 14.5 h of light, and the temperature increased to 27.7oC. Calling began to decrease once the temperature fell below 27.7 oC, and the light cycle shifted to 12 h of light. These captive settings are similar to the amount of daylight and water temperatures observed during the summer, which is the primary spawning period of spotted seatrout. Spotted seatrout exhibited daily patterns of calling. Sound production began once the lights turned off, and calling reached maximum activity approximately 3 h later. Spawning occurred only on evenings in which spotted seatrout were calling. Significantly more calling and higher mean SPLs occurred on evenings in which spawning occurred as compared to evenings in which spawning did not occur. Spawning was more productive when spotted seatrout produced more calls. For all tanks, more calling and higher SPLs were associated with more eggs released by females.Discussion: The fact that more calling and higher SPLs were associated with spawns that were more productive indicates that acoustic metrics can provide quantitative information on spotted seatrout spawning in the wild. These findings will help us to identify spawning aggregations over large spatial scales and monitor the effects of noise pollution, water quality, and climatic changes on reproductive activity using acoustic technology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1656/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Natural Sciences, University of South Carolina Beaufort', u'Department of Mathematics and Computational Science, University of South Carolina Beaufort', u'South Carolina Department of Natural Resources, Marine Resources Research Institute']]
[u'Growth of 48 built environment bacterial isolates on board the International Space Station (ISS)', ['David A Coil', 'Russell Y Neches', 'Jenna M Lang', 'Wendy E Brown', 'Mark Severance', 'Darlene Darlene Cavalier', 'Jonathan A Eisen'], u'2016-01-16', u'Background: While significant attention has been paid to the potential risk of pathogenic microbes aboard crewed spacecraft, much less has focused on the non-pathogenic microbes in these habitats. Preliminary work has demonstrated that the interior of the International Space Station (ISS) has a microbial community resembling those of built environments on earth. Here we report results of sending 48 bacterial strains, collected from built environments on earth, for a growth experiment on the ISS. This project was a component of Project MERCCURI (Microbial Ecology Research Combining Citizen and University Researchers on ISS). Results: Of the 48 strains sent to the ISS, 45 of them showed similar growth in space and on earth. The vast majority of species tested in this experiment have also been found in culture-independent surveys of the ISS. Only one bacterial strain that avoided contamination showed significantly different growth in space. Bacillus safensis JPL-MERTA-8-2 grew 60% better in space than on earth. Conclusions: The majority of bacteria tested were not affected by conditions aboard the ISS in this experiment (e.g., microgravity, cosmic radiation). Further work on Bacillus safensis could lead to interesting insights on why this bacteria grew so much better in space.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1654/', ['Microbiology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Genome Center, University of California, Davis', u'Science Cheerleader', u'SciStarter.org and Science Cheerleader', u'Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Evolution and Ecology, University of California, Davis']]
[u'Convergent synthesis and biological evaluation of vitamin D analogues as potential anticancer agents', ['Andrzej Kutner'], u'2016-01-15', u'Synthetic analogs of 1alpha,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol [1alpha,25-(OH)2D3] and 1alpha,25-dihydroxyergocalciferol [1alpha,25-(OH)2D2] have long been considered as key regulators of calcium and phosphate homeostasis. These analogs have been recently investigated as potential therapeutics against a number of pathological states, including metabolic, dermatological, immune and hyperproliferative diseases. Analogues of 1alpha,25-(OH)2D3 and 1alpha,25-(OH)2D2, modified in the cyclohexane A-ring and in the aliphatic side-chain, potentiated the efficiency of cytostatics and/or cooperated efficiently with polyphenol in human myeloid leukemia cells (HL60, U937 and MOLM-13) and in several animal models of leukemias and solid tumours. The therapeutic effect resulted from the thorough combination of several key factors, including the selection of vitamin D-sensitive cancer model, type of cytostatic, the right scheme and route of administration of both therapeutics, correlation with vitamin D receptor level and managing of the hypercalcemic side effect of vitamin D. In this work our synthesis and biological evaluation is outlined of a novel generation of vitamin D analogs as well as our investigation of their anticancer profile in vitro and in vivo. Our convergent synthesis started from vitamin D-like advanced intermediates and separately prepared side-chain fragments. This way, in an over twenty-step syntheses, a series of analogs were obtained containing, compared to the parent vitamin D hormones, 1alpha,25-(OH)2D3 and 1alpha,25-(OH)2D2, an additional chiral center or conjugated diene system in the side-chain and/or modified 5,6-trans or 19-nor A-ring. Some of the new analogs, pre-selected in a number of in vitro models, showed, in the combined treatment with cytostatics, the beneficial activity profile in both, murine colon cancer MC38 and in human colon cancer HT-29 cells. Our analogues also modulated expression of genes related to stem-like phenotype in vitamin D receptor (VDR) positive colon cancer cells, HT-29 and HCT-116, at different differentiation states, undergoing renewal after the treatment with 5-FU. The analogs induced differentiation of VDR positive A375 and VDR negative SK-MEL 188b human melanoma cells. Some of our analogs also displayed moderate cytotoxic and pro-apoptotic activity in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) and concentration and time-dependent antiproliferative action upon stimulated B-cells from healthy donors. Data available from the protein data bank were used for the rational design of the next generation of analogs by minimizing the electrostatic interaction energies, after the reconstruction of a charge densities using pseudoatom databank. Due to a low calcemic activity and anticancer profile in vivo, selected new analogues might be considered as promising candidates for further preclinical evaluation as potential anticancer agents.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1653/', ['Biochemistry', 'Molecular Biology', 'Oncology', 'Pharmacology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Pharmacology Department, Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'Cell cycle progression in glioblastoma cells is unaffected by pathophysiological levels of hypoxia', ['Rosalie Richards', 'Michael D Jenkinson', 'Brian J Haylock', 'Violaine See'], u'2016-01-15', u'Hypoxia is associated with the increased malignancy of a broad range of solid tumours; however, whilst very severe hypoxia has been widely shown to induce cell cycle arrest, the impact of pathophysiological hypoxia on tumour cell proliferation is poorly understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of different oxygen levels on glioblastoma (GBM) cell proliferation and survival. GBM is an extremely aggressive brain tumour with a heterogeneous oxygenation pattern. The effect of a range of oxygen tensions on GBM cell lines and primary cells were assessed using flow cytometry. Results indicate that cell cycle distribution and viability are unaffected by long term exposure (up to 4 days) to pathophysiological levels of oxygen (1-8% O 2). Both transient cell cycle arrest and small amounts of cell death could only be detected when cells were exposed to severe hypoxia (0.1% O2). No significant changes in p21 protein expression levels were detected. These findings reinforce the importance of using physiologically relevant oxygen tensions when investigating tumour hypoxia, and help to explain how solid tumours can be both hypoxic and highly proliferative, as is the case with GBM.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1652/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology'], [u'Institute of Integrative Biology, Department of Biochemistry, University of Liverpool', u'Institute of Translational Medicine, Clinical Science Centre, University of Liverpool', u'Department of Neurosurgery, The Walton Centre NHS Foundation Trust', u'Department of Clinical Oncology, Clatterbridge Cancer Centre']]
[u'Potential problems of removing one invasive species at a time: Interactions between invasive vertebrates and unexpected effects of removal programs', ['Sebastian A Ballari', 'Sara E Kuebbing', 'Martin A Nunez'], u'2016-01-15', u'Although the co-occurrence of nonnative vertebrates is a ubiquitous global phenomenon, the study of interactions between invaders is poorly represented in the literature. Limited understanding of the interactions between co-occurring vertebrates can be problematic for predicting how the removal of only one invasive\u2014a common management scenario\u2014will affect native communities. We suggest a trophic food web framework for predicting the effects of single-species management on native biodiversity. We used a literature search and meta-analysis to assess current understanding of how the removal of one invasive vertebrate affects native biodiversity relative to when two invasives are present. The majority of studies focused on the removal of carnivores, mainly within aquatic systems, which highlights a critical knowledge gap in our understanding of co-occurring invasive vertebrates. We found that removal of one invasive vertebrate caused a significant negative effect on native species compared to when two invasive vertebrates were present. These unexpected results could arise because of the positioning and hierarchy of the co-occurring invasives in food web (e.g. carnivore-carnivore or carnivore-herbivore). We consider that there are important knowledge gaps to determinate the effects of multiple co-existing invaders on native ecosystems, and this information could be precious for management.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1651/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Parque Nacional Nahuel Huapi (CENAC-APN), National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET)', u'School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, Yale University', u'Laboratorio de Ecotono, INIBIOMA, National Scientific and Technical Research Council (CONICET)']]
[u'Emotion recognition based on customized smart bracelet with built-in accelerometer', ['Zhan Zhang', 'Yufei Y Song', 'Liqing Cui', 'Xiaoqian Liu', 'Tingshao Zhu'], u'2016-01-14', u"Background. In recent years, artificial intelligence (AI) has become an important issue, in which, how to make computers understand the thinking of human being is one of critical topics. If computer could perceive and respond to person's non-verbal language such as emotions, the communication between human beings and computers will be more friendly and naturally. So, more and more researchers are paying attention to realize human daily emotion recognition based on wearable sensor' signals, which could be applied in many applications of health care and Human-Computer-Interaction (HCI). Methods. In this paper, we propose an emotion recognition method, which is based on customized smart bracelet with built-in accelerometer. Those bracelets can be worn on people's ankle and wrist. Firstly, the acceleration data of ankle and wrist are obtained when person is walking naturally. Considering the original acceleration data is noisy and variable, the Moving Average Filter is used to eliminate noise. Besides, walking can be regarded as the repetitive movement of legs and arms, so the collected acceleration data may be redundant. Through analysis, we design a sliding window to divide the whole data into several data slices of the same size, and let the neighboring slices be partially overlapped. In the subsequent operations, each data slice would be taken as one sample. This process can not only avoid high computational requirement caused by redundancy data, and can also expand the number of samples. For each data slice, 114 relevant features for emotion recognition are extracted. Then, Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is applied to select effective attributes. Finally, we built the emotion recognition classifier based on Weka software platform. Taking the same attributes as input, we compared the performance of emotion recognition among some classical classifiers, including Support Vector Machine (SVM), Decision Tree, Random Tree and Random Forest. Results. The classification accuracy is used to evaluate the effectiveness of our proposed emotion recognition method. Overall, SVM outperforms the other classifiers. The two-category classification accuracies of neutral-anger, neutral-happiness and happiness-anger are 91.3%, 88.5% and 88.5% respectively. The accuracy of multi-category classification among neutral, happiness and anger is 81.2%. Discussion. In the comparative experiments, the recognition rates of different emotion states are all above 81%. It is concluded that gait is capable to reveal affective state of minds.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1650/', ['Kinesiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Computational Science'], [u'School of Computer and Control Engineering, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'DNA barcoding and taxonomy: dark taxa and dark texts', ['Roderic D M Page'], u'2016-01-13', u'Both classical taxonomy and DNA barcoding are engaged in the task of digitising the living world. Much of the taxonomic literature remains undigitised. The rise of open access publishing this century, and the freeing of older literature from the shackles of copyright has greatly increased the online availability of taxonomic descriptions, but much of the literature of the mid- to late twentieth century remains o\ufb04ine ("dark texts"). DNA barcoding is generating a wealth of computable data that in many ways is much easier to work with than classical taxonomic descriptions, but many of the sequences are not identi\ufb01ed to species level. These "dark taxa" hamper the classical method of integrating biodiversity data using shared taxonomic names. Voucher specimens are a potential common currency of both the taxonomic literature and sequence databases, and could be used to help link names, literature, and sequences. An obstacle to this approach is the lack of stable, resolvable specimen identi\ufb01ers. The paper concludes with an appeal for a global "digital dashboard" to assess the extent to which biodiversity data is available online.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1649/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy'], [u'IBAHCM, MVLS, University of Glasgow']]
[u'Improving the connection between data collection and decision making at US EPA and US DOE', ['Stanley Blacker'], u'2016-01-13', u"Solving an environmental problem requires stakeholder understanding and agreement. What appears to be simple problems to define become complex when data determine outcomes. This paper will describe the seven step decision logic developed for and used by US EPA to determine the problem and the decision rule for establishing compliance and acceptable uncertainty in the data used in informed decision making. Advances made in Kriging and Bayesian statistical inference tools to quantify estimates of data distributions and associated uncertainty will be described. But, making informed decisions pivot on tradeoff between cost of obtaining more information and cost of action. Raifa's foundational work on statistical decision theory is the basis for creating quantitative cost driven methodology directly applicable to cost-risk-benefit environmental decision making and actions. The paper presents various real world applications of these tools.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1648/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Legal Issues', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Environmental Statistics, Montana State University']]
[u'Association between neurological soft signs, temperament and character in patients with schizophrenia and non-psychotic relatives', ['Liliana Galindo', 'Francisco Pastoriza', 'Daniel Berge', 'Anna Mane', 'Marisol Picado', 'Antonio Bulbena', 'Patricia Robledo', 'Victor Perez', 'Oscar Vilarroya', 'Claude Robert Cloninger'], u'2016-01-13', u'The heritability of schizophrenia and most personality traits has been well established, but the role of personality in susceptibility to schizophrenia remains uncertain. The aim of this study was to test for an association between personality traits and Neurological Soft Signs (NSS), a well-known biological marker of schizophrenia, in non-psychotic relatives of patients with schizophrenia. For this purpose, we evaluated the NSS scale and personality measured by the Temperament and Character inventory (TCI-R) in three groups of subjects: 29 patients with schizophrenia, 24 unaffected relatives and 37 controls. The results showed that patients with schizophrenia were more asocial (higher harm avoidance and lower reward dependence), more perseverative (higher persistence), and more schizotypal (lower self-directedness and cooperativeness, higher self-transcendence). The unaffected relatives showed higher harm avoidance, lower self-directedness and cooperativeness than the healthy controls. Higher NSS scores and sub-scores were found in patients and non-psychotic relatives compared with the controls. Among all the patients, total NSS scores were positively correlated with harm avoidance but negatively correlated with novelty seeking and persistence. Total NSS were also correlated with low scores on self-directedness and cooperativeness, which are indicators of personality disorder. Our results show that susceptibility to NSS and to schizophrenia are both related to individual differences in the temperament and character features in non-psychotic relatives of patients with schizophrenia. High harm avoidance, low persistence, low self-directedness and low cooperativeness contribute to both the risk of NSS and schizophrenia. These findings highlight the value of using both assessments to study high risk populations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1647/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Neuropsychiatry and Addiction Institute, Parc de Salut Mar', u'Neurosciences Research Programme, Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute', u'Departament de Psiquiatria i Medicina Legal, Universitat Aut\xf3noma de Barcelona', u'Red de Trastornos Adictivos, RETIC', u'Neurosciences Research Programme, Hospital del Mar Medical Research Institute (IMIM)', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n Biom\xe9dica en Red de Salud Mental, CIBERSAM G21', u'Neuropharmacology, Universitat Pompeu Fabra', u'Department of Psychiatry and Genetics, Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Relationships between taxonomic and functional diversity: insights into assembly processes', ['Doriane Stagnol', 'Lise Bacouillard', 'Dominique Davoult'], u'2016-01-13', u'Among the potential indicators of biodiversity, those based on the functional traits of species are interesting because they measure the aspects of diversity that potentially affect community assembly and function. However, trait-based approaches are still rarely considered and little is known about the degree to which taxonomic diversity (TD) and functional diversity (FD) are correlated. Yet, this relationship is thought to depend on the extent of ecological redundancy within the assemblage, i.e. the number of taxonomically distinct species that exhibit similar ecological functions. In this study, we characterized taxonomic and functional diversity within and between two marine habitats (rocky shore vs mudflats) under human-induced disturbances. Models were also used to test whether the relationship between TD and FD differed according to the indices used to characterize them. We found little effect of human disturbance on the shape of the TD-FD relationship, whereas communities of the mudflat appeared to be less redundant than those of rocky shore. This could be explained by the assembly rules of ecosystems: biotic filtering (competition and resource partitioning) reduces redundancy by selecting for functionally dissimilar species, whereas abiotic filtering increases redundancy by selecting for similar species sharing adaptations to a particular environment. The rocky shore environment is characterized by heterogeneity that allows the formation of distinct ecological niches that can be colonized by similar species: the abiotic filtering does not limit the redundancy permitted by habitat. Conversely, in the more homogeneous environment of mudflat, the biotic filter mitigates redundancy. Trait-mediated abiotic filtering appears to play an important role in community assembly in complex habitats, whereas the relative importance of competitive exclusion appears to be greater in homogeneous habitats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1646/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Sorbonne Universit\xe9s, UPMC Univ Paris 6, Station Biologique de Roscoff - Place Georges Teissier, F-29682', u'CNRS, UMR 7144 AD2M, Place Georges Teissier, F-29682']]
[u'What doesn\u2019t kill them makes them stronger: An association between elongation factor 1-\u03b1 overdominance in the sea star Pisaster ochraceus and "sea star wasting disease\u201d', ['John P. Wares', 'Lauren M Schiebelhut'], u'2016-01-13', u"In recent years, a massive plague has killed millions of sea stars, of many different species, along the Pacific coast of North America. This disease, known as 'sea star wasting disease' (SSWD), is thought to be caused by viral infection. In the affected sea star Pisaster ochraceus, previous work had identified that the elongation factor 1-\u03b1 (EF1A) locus harbored an intronic insertion allele that is lethal when homozygous yet appears to be maintained at moderate frequency in populations through increased fitness for heterozygotes. The environmental conditions supporting this increased fitness are unknown, but overdominance is often associated with disease. Here, we evaluate populations of P. ochraceus to identify the relationship between SSWD and EF1A genotype. Our data suggest that there may be significantly decreased infection or mortality rates in individuals that are heterozygous at this locus. These results suggest further studies to understand the functional relationship between diversity at EF1A and survival in P. ochraceus.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1464/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Genetics and the Odum School of Ecology, University of Georgia', u'School of Natural Sciences, University of California, Merced']]
[u'GALACTOSEMIA Web DB: A web accessible database of Galactosemia related proteins', ["Antonio d'Acierno", 'Angelo Facchiano', 'Anna Marabotti'], u'2016-01-13', u'Galactose is a monosaccharide present in several foods and, once introduced into the body, it is metabolised by a biochemical pathway involving three enzymes: galactokinase (GALK), galactose-1-phosphate uridylyltransferase (GALT), and UDP-galactose-4\'-epimerase (GALE). Hereditary deficiencies of these three enzymes in humans are related to three different forms of the genetic disease globally called "galactosemia". The impairment of GALK causes Galactosemia Type II, whereas GALT deficiency causes the disease called Classic Galactosemia, and finally GALE deficiency is linked to Galactosemia type III or Galactose Epimerase deficiency. The clinical manifestations of each enzyme deficiency differ markedly: patients with GALK deficiency, for example, have the mildest clinical consequences, while Classic Galactosemia is potentially lethal in infancy, if undiagnosed and/or untreated, and is also associated with long-term, organ-specific complications. The impairment of these enzymes is linked to the presence of mutations in their genes. The most common ones are missense mutations, causing the replacement of a residue on the protein sequence with another one. This kind of mutation can have different effects depending on whether the original residue is replaced with a very similar or very different one, and depending on the place where the original residue is located on the protein structure. It has been shown elsewhere that it is possible to infer the severity of a mutation by using computational approaches that can predict its impact on protein structure and function, provided that the structure is known. This kind of knowledge can be thus of help to correlate the severity of symptoms with the effect at protein level, to better understand and, possibly, to predict, the outcome of a mutation on individuals carrying it. The aim of the proposed web-accessible database is to collect and provide information about the predicted structural and functional effects of missense mutations of the enzymes linked to the different forms of galactosemia, in order to help researchers to reach a deeper comprehension of these genetic diseases. At time of writing, we are working to develop an unique database that includes the variants of GALT enzyme, already described in the GALT protein DB, and the variants of GALK and GALE enzymes, and to allow the users to extract information about structural and functional effects of each variant by several kinds of combinable filters. The perspective of this work is to have a tool suitable for investigating with a similar approach also other proteins subjected to variations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1645/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Databases', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Institute of Food Sciences, National Research Council', u'Department of Chemistry and Biology, University of Salerno']]
[u'Distributions of p-values smaller than .05 in Psychology: What is going on?', ['Chris HJ Hartgerink', 'Robbie CM van Aert', 'Michele B Nuijten', 'Jelte M. Wicherts', 'Marcel ALM van Assen'], u'2016-01-13', u'Previous studies provided mixed findings on pecularities in p-value distributions in psychology. This paper examined 258,050 test results across 30,710 articles from eight high impact journals to investigate the existence of a peculiar prevalence of p-values just below .05 in the psychological literature, and a potential increase thereof over time. We indeed found evidence for a bump just below .05 in the distribution of exactly reported p-values in the journals Developmental Psychology, Journal of Applied Psychology, and Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, but the bump did not increase over the years and disappeared when using recalculated p-values. We found clear and direct evidence for the QRP \u201dincorrect rounding of p-value\u201d (John et al., 2012) in all psychology journals. Finally, we also investigated monotonic excess of p-values, an effect of certain QRPs that has been neglected in previous research, and developed two measures to detect this by modeling the distributions of statistically significant p-values. Using simulations and applying the two measures to the retrieved test results, we argue that, although one of the measures suggests the use of QRPs in psychology, it is difficult to draw general conclusions concerning QRPs based on modeling of p-value distributions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1642/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Methodology and Statistics, Tilburg University', u'Utrecht University']]
[u'Trophic diversity of seagrass detritus copepods: A consequence of species-specific specialization or a random diet?', ['Thibaud Mascart', 'Marleen De Troch', 'Francois Remy', 'Loic Michel', 'Gilles Lepoint'], u'2016-01-13', u'One of the major ecological research questions is understanding how biodiversity influences ecosystem functioning. Unravelling interspecific feeding preferences of organisms with overlapping trophic niches will give part of the answer. Subsequently, the present study displays the trophic diversity of a benthic copepod community in a North-Western Corsican Posidonia oceanica seagrass ecosystem. These seagrass meadows are often interrupted by bare sand patches serving as deposition area for loose detritus. The accumulated macrophytodetritus, mainly derived from senescent macrophytes, harbour a diverse community of Harpacticoida (Crustacea, Copepoda). The most abundant copepods (i.e. three harpacticoids and one calanoid, belonging to different eco-morphological types) and their potential food sources (i.e. macrophytodetritus, epiphytic biofilm and suspended organic matter) were analysed for stable isotope ratios (\u03b413C, \u03b415N) and total lipids content. The results revealed a harpacticoid copepod feeding preference towards the epiphytic biofilm, while calanoid copepods preferred suspended organic matter. Additionally, a species-specific composition variation revealed finer partitioning of food resources (e.g. different micro-organisms present in the biofilm like bacteria, diatoms, fungi) over time.In conclusion, results showed species-specific food preferences, resulting in trophic niche and resource partitioning. Every eco-morphological type seems to cope in different ways with temporal fluctuations of food sources to comply with their nutritional needs. This illustrates the high resilience of the copepod community present in macrophytodetritus accumulations. Moreover, our results underlined the importance of multiple biomarker species-specific analysis in trophic ecology studies, especially in complex and dynamic environments offering numerous food items to consumers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1644/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Marine Biology Research Group, Universiteit Gent', u'MARE centre, Laboratory of Oceanology, Universit\xe9 de Li\xe8ge']]
[u'Could the intertidal Ellisolandia elongata reef be affected by climate changes expected in the near future in the Mediterranean Sea?', ['Matteo Nannini', 'Maurizio Florio', 'Maria Chiara Manauzzi', 'Agnese Marchini', 'Giancarlo Raiteri', 'Chiara Lombardi', 'Federica Ragazzola'], u'2016-01-13', u"The concentration of Green House Gasses and specifically the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere is continuously increasing since the industrial revolution and it is the most relevant anthropic cause driving climate changes. Two of the strongest symptoms of those changes are the Global Warming and the Ocean Acidification which are progressively altering marine ecosystems and the populations of living organisms they support. The Mediterranean Sea is widely considered a 'laboratory basin' by suffering dramatic changes in its oceanographic and biogeochemical conditions derived from natural and anthropogenic forces. Calcifying seaweeds are the most important 'bioconstructors', from mesolittoral to circalittoral fringe, providing habitats and ecological niches for other species (i.e. biodiversity promoters) but also are good 'recorders' of the environmental condition they experience (i.e. biondicators). In this study we focused on the reef-forming Ellisolandia elongata from the Gulf of La Spezia (N-W Mediterranean Sea) by comparing the physical properties, growth rate and abundance of associated fauna in natural and experimental conditions (temperature and pH expected for 2050-2100). Four sampling sites were chosen in the intertidal zone. Reef samples were bring in the laboratory and put in experimental conditions for a month. Four aquaria simulated the actual conditions of temperature and pH, other 4 aquaria simulated temperature (+3\xb0C) and pH (7.7) expected for the year near future. E. elongata grown in the natural and experimental conditions withstand mechanical stress in slightly different ways. The study of the effect of temperature and pH variations on growth rate and associated fauna of E. elongata reef is still in progress.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1643/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Laboratory of Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services, ENEA', u'Department of Biology, University of Pisa', u'Association For-Mare for Applied Ecological Sciences', u'Dept of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Pavia', u'Institute of Marine Sciences, University of Portsmouth']]
[u'Intron gain by tandem genomic duplication: a novel case and a new version of the model', ['Ming-Yue Ma', 'Xin-Ran Lan', 'Deng-Ke Niu'], u'2016-01-12', u"Origin and subsequent accumulation of spliceosomal introns are prominent events in the evolution of eukaryotic gene structure. Recently gained introns would be especially useful for the study of the mechanisms of intron gain because randomly accumulated mutations might erase the evolutionary traces. The mechanisms of intron gain remain unclear due to the presence of very few solid cases. A widely cited model of intron gain is tandem genomic duplication, in which the duplication of an AGGT-containing exonic segment provides the GT and AG splicing sites for the new intron. We found that the second intron of the potato RNA-dependent RNA polymerase gene PGSC0003DMG402000361 originated mainly from a direct duplication of the 3\u2032 side of the upstream intron. The 5' splicing site of this new intron was recruited from the upstream exonic sequence. In addition to the new intron, a downstream exonic segment of 178 bp also arose from duplication. Most of the splicing signals were inherited directly from the parental intron/exon structure, including a putative branch site, the polypyrimidine tract, the 3\u2032 splicing site, two putative exonic splicing enhancers and the GC contents differentiated between the intron and exon. We propose a new version of the tandem genomic duplication model, termed as the partial duplication of the preexisting intron/exon structure. This new version and the widely cited version are not mutually exclusive.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1439/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics'], [u'College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University']]
[u'\xadImmunohistochemistry for the detection of neural and inflammatory cells in equine brain tissue', ['Gretchen H Delcambre', 'Junjie Liu', 'Jenna M Herrington', 'Kelsey Vallario', 'Maureen T Long'], u'2016-01-09', u'Phenotypic characterization of cellular responses in equine infectious encephalitides has had limited description of both peripheral and resident cell populations in central nervous system (CNS) tissues due to limited species-specific reagents that react with formalin-fixed, paraffin embedded tissue (FFPE). This study identified a set of antibodies for investigating the immunopathology of infectious CNS diseases in horses. Multiple commercially available staining reagents and antibodies derived from antigens of various species for manual immunohistochemistry (IHC) were screened. Several techniques and reagents for heat-induced antigen retrieval, non-specific protein blocking, endogenous peroxidase blocking, and visualization-detection systems were tested during IHC protocol development. Boiling of slides in a low pH, citrate-based buffer solution in a double-boiler system was most consistent for epitope retrieval. Pressure-cooking, microwaving, high pH buffers, and proteinase K solutions often resulted in tissue disruption or no reactivity. Optimal blocking reagents and concentrations of each working antibody were determined. Ultimately, a set of monoclonal (mAb) and polyclonal antibodies (pAb) were identified for CD3+ (pAb A0452, Dako) T-lymphocytes, CD79\u03b1cy+ B-lymphocytes (mAb HM57, Dako), macrophages (mAb MAC387, Leica), NF-H+ neurons (mAb NAP4, EnCor Biotechnology), microglia/macrophage (pAb Iba-1, Wako), and GFAP+ astrocytes (mAb 5C10, EnCor Biotechnology). In paraffin embedded tissues, mAbs and pAbs derived from human and swine antigens were very successful at binding equine tissue targets. Individual, optimized protocols are provided for each positively reactive antibody for analyzing equine neuroinflammatory disease histopathology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1641/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Pathology', 'Histology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciencess/ College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Colorado State University', u'Department of Infectious Diseases and Pathology/ College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Florida', u'Department of Infectious Diseases and Pathology, University of Florida']]
[u'A comparison of tree community assemblage and diversity of secondary forests between the birch and pine-oak belts in the mid-altitude zone of the Qinling Mountains, China', ['Zongzheng Chai', 'Dexiang Wang'], u'2016-01-09', u'Deforestation is a major driver of forest loss and fragmentation, threatening forest biodiversity worldwide. The conservation and restoration of secondary vegetation is thus an important developmental goal. Birch and pine-oak belts have been the two main types of vegetation in the mid-altitude zone of the Qinling Mountains in China but are now mainly covered by secondary growth following large-scale deforestation. Assessing the recovery and sustainability of these forests is essential for their management and restoration. We investigated and compared the tree community assemblages and diversity patterns of secondary forests between birch and pine-oak belts in the Huoditang forest region of the Qinling Mountains after identical natural recoveries. Both the birch and pine-oak belts had richspeciescompositions and similar floristiccomponents but clearly different tree community structures. Niche and neutral processes simultaneously influenced the distribution of species and the community dynamics of the belts. Tree diversity was significantly higher for the birch than the pine-oak belt. Monitoring biodiversity is essential for the recovery and development of forest resources in the Qinling Mountains to safeguard biodiversity, especially tree diversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1639/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Forest management, College of Forestry, Northwest A&F University', u'Department of Forest protection, College of Forestry, Northwest A&F University']]
[u'Rutin as an effective protector of fibroblasts against UVA irradiation', ['Agnieszka Gegotek', 'Ewa Ambrozewicz', 'Paula  Rybatowska-Kawako', 'Elzbieta Skrzydlewska'], u'2016-01-09', u'Background. UVA is one of the most ubiquitous and penetrating stress factor to human skin and it is crucially involved in various forms of skin damages including the photoaging and cancerogenesis. Mentioned skin damages are connected with redox status imbalance and consequently with cellular metabolic disturbances (changes in phospholipid mediators, including lipid peroxidation products and endocannabinoids). To prevent the redox status changes in skin cells many natural antioxidants which reduce the amount of ROS, resulted from UV in particular, in the cells thereby protecting them from their toxic effects are used. One of them is well known plant-derived polyphenol \u2013 rutin. Therefore, the aim of the study was to exam the effect of rutin on redox balance and lipid mediators after UVA irradiation of skin fibroblasts. Methods. Fibroblasts were subjected to UVA [30 J/cm2] and were treated and pretreated with \u2013 rutin [25\u03bcM]. The redox status was estimated by xanthine and NADPH oxidases activity and ROS generation (ESR/spectrophotometry), enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants (HPLC, spectrophotometry), and lipid mediators: lipid peroxidation products (LCMS; GC/MS) and endocannabinoids (LC/MS) were examined. The cannabinoids receptors, transcriptional factor Nrf2 and its activators/inhibitors, as well as pro-inflammatory, pro- and anti-apoptotic protein levels were also measured (Western blot). Results. Obtained results demonstrate that rutin significantly reduced UVA-induced xanthine and NADPH oxidase activity what was accompanied by changes in ROS generation. Rutin also enhanced antioxidants activity [SOD] and non-enzymatic antioxidant level [GSH, vitamin E and C], which decreased due to UVA exposure. It was shown that UVA-induced Nrf2 activity has been reduced by rutin. Simultaneously, rutin led to increase in Nrf2 inhibitor Bach2 in UVA irradiated cells. It was shown that UVA caused significant decrease in linoleic and arachidonic acids levels and in consequence a strong increase in lipid peroxidation products - MDA and 4-HNE level were observed. Also another lipid mediators \u2013 endocannabinoids level was changed during UV irradiation. The significantly reduced level of cytosolic AEA and 2-AG and accompanied higher expression in the level of their receptors CB1, CB2, VR1 and GPR55 were demonstrated. Rutin given after irradiation prevented the most changes caused by UV irradiation. Rutin also protect cells against inflammatory effect after UV irradiation, and decrease apoptotic fibroblasts activity, confirmed by increase in Bcl-2, and decrease in caspases levels. Discussion. Obtained results show that rutin efficiently prevents oxidative stress and inflammatory response formation as well as changes in phospholipid metabolism including endocannabinoids and lipid peroxidation products level, what may be important point to search the skin protecting method against harmful ultraviolet radiation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1638/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology'], [u'Department of Inorganic and Analytical Chemistry, Medical University of Bia\u0142ystok']]
[u'Flower color preferences of insects and livestock: effects on Gentiana lutea reproductive success', ['Mar Sobral', 'Maria Losada', 'Tania Veiga', 'Javier Guitian', 'Jose Guitian', 'Pablo Guitian'], u'2016-01-07', u'Angiosperms diversification was primarily driven by pollinator agents, but non-pollinator agents also promoted floral evolution. Gentiana lutea shows pollinator driven flower color variation in NW Spain. We test whether insect herbivores and livestock, which frequently feed in G.lutea, play a role in G. lutea flower color variation, by answering the following questions: i) Do insect herbivores and grazing livestock show flower color preferences when feeding on G. lutea? ii) Do mutualists (pollinators) and antagonists (seed predators, insect herbivores and livestock) jointly affect G. lutea reproductive success? Insect herbivores fed more often on yellow flowering individuals but they did not affect seed production whereas livestock affected seed production but did not show clear color preferences. Our data indicate that flower color variation of G. lutea is not affected by insect herbivores or grazing livestock.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1636/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science'], [u'Departamento de Biolox\xeda celular e Ecolox\xeda/Facultade de Biolox\xeda, Universidad de Santiago de Compostela', u'Departamento de Bot\xe1nica/Facultade de Biolox\xeda, Universidad de Santiago de Compostela']]
[u'Unraveling zucchini transcriptome response to aphids', ['Alessia Vitiello', 'Daria Scarano', "Nunzio D'Agostino", 'Maria Cristina Digilio', 'Francesco Pennacchio', 'Giandomenico Corrado', 'Rosa Rao'], u'2016-01-07', u'Cucurbita pepo belongs to the Cucurbitaceae, the second-most large horticultural family of economic importance after Solanaceae. One major issue related to zucchini cultivation is the damage caused by aphids such as Aphis gossypii (Homoptera: Aphididae). The aim of this study is the identification of candidate genes involved in zucchini plant response to A. gossypii. In order to monitor the effect of zucchini-aphid interaction at transcriptomic level, zucchini plants (cv \u201cSan Pasquale\u201d) were grown in controlled conditions in presence or absence of A. gossypii. Leaf material was collected at 24, 48 and 96 hours after aphid infestation. RNA extracted was sequenced using the Illumina HiSeq 2500 platform. The sequencing generated ~34 million of paired-end reads of 100 nucleotides in length per sample. High quality reads were de novo assembled into 71,648 transcripts. About 94% of the assembled transcripts contain coding sequences that could be translated into proteins. Over 60% of the transcripts were functionally annotated and assigned to one or more InterPro domains and Gene Ontology terms. A subset of 42,517 sequences of the C. pepo transcriptome was used for read mapping and differentially expressed genes (DEG) identification. Largest number of DEG were observed after 48 hours from aphid infestation. The transcriptome represents a high-quality reference for read alignment and DEG call. The understanding of the molecular response of infested plants will be essential to develop new tools for A. gossypii control.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1635/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biotechnology', 'Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Agriculture, University of Naples Federico II', u'Centro per la ricerca in agricoltura e l\u2019analisi dell\u2019economia agraria, Centro di ricerca per l\u2019orticoltura (CREA-ORT)']]
[u'Structural characterization of the Hepatitis C Virus E2 glycoprotein: computational and experimental approaches', ['Daniela Barone', 'Nicole Balasco', 'Ida Autiero', 'Luigi Vitagliano'], u'2016-01-07', u'Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a major cause of chronic liver disease worldwide. Although effective therapeutic approaches, based on specific inhibitors of HCV proteins NS3/4A and NS5B, have been recently discovered, their use is limited by the elevated costs of these drugs. Currently, there is neither an effective immune globulin for prophylaxis nor a vaccine for the prevention of hepatitis C. A particularly attracting target is represented by the immunogenic E2 glycoprotein, a key factor for HCV entry in host cells. This protein has been the subject of recent structural studies that have greatly expand our current knowledge of HCV pathogenicity (Khan et al. 2015; Khan et al. 2014; Kong et al. 2013). In this framework, we have recently undertaken studies aimed at evaluating the potential of some regions of the protein as vaccine candidates (Sandomenico et al. 2015, under review). We here investigated the structural/dynamic features of the E2 protein, whose structure has been recently solved by two independent groups in complex with antibodies. Molecular dynamics simulations carried out on the protein core provided interesting information on both global dynamics of the protein and on local features of important regions. Moreover, a combined experimental/computational analysis shows that the epitope I region (residues 412-422) is endowed with an elevated structural versatility. Collectively these findings provide useful information for future studies aimed at designing anti-HCV vaccines.ReferencesKhan AG, Miller MT, and Marcotrigiano J. 2015. HCV glycoprotein structures: what to expect from the unexpected. Current opinion in virology 12:53-58. 10.1016/j.coviro.2015.02.004 Khan AG, Whidby J, Miller MT, Scarborough H, Zatorski AV, Cygan A, Price AA, Yost SA, Bohannon CD, Jacob J, Grakoui A, and Marcotrigiano J. 2014. Structure of the core ectodomain of the hepatitis C virus envelope glycoprotein 2. Nature 509:381-384. 10.1038/nature13117 Kong L, Giang E, Nieusma T, Kadam RU, Cogburn KE, Hua Y, Dai X, Stanfield RL, Burton DR, Ward AB, Wilson IA, and Law M. 2013. Hepatitis C virus E2 envelope glycoprotein core structure. Science 342:10901094. 10.1126/science.1243876', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1634/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute of Biostructures and Bioimaging, National Research Council', u'DiSTABiF, Second University of Naples']]
[u'DNA barcode data accurately identify higher taxa', ['Jonathan A Coddington', 'Ingi Agnarsson', 'Ren-Chung Cheng', 'Klemen Candek', 'Amy Driskell', 'Holger Frick', 'Matjaz Gregoric', 'Rok Kostanjsek', 'Christian Kropf', 'Matthew Kweskin', 'Tjasa Lokovsek', 'Miha Pipan', 'Nina Vidergar', 'Matjaz Kuntner'], u'2016-01-07', u'The use of unique DNA sequences as a method for taxonomic identification is no longer fundamentally controversial, even though debate continues on the best markers, methods, and technology to use. Although both existing databanks such as GenBank and BOLD, as well as reference taxonomies, are imperfect, in best case scenarios \u201cbarcodes\u201d (whether single or multiple, organelle or nuclear, loci) clearly are an increasingly fast and inexpensive method of identification, especially as compared to manual identification of unknowns by increasingly rare expert taxonomists. Because most species on Earth are undescribed, a complete reference database at the species level is impractical in the near term. The question therefore arises whether unidentified species can, using DNA barcodes, be accurately assigned to more inclusive groups such as genera and families\u2014taxonomic ranks of putatively monophyletic groups for which the global inventory is more complete and stable. We used a carefully chosen test library of CO1 sequences from 49 families, 313 genera, and 816 species of spiders to assess the accuracy of genus and family-level identifications. We used BLAST queries of each sequence against the entire library and got the top ten hits resulting in 8160 hits. The percent sequence identity was reported from these hits (PIdent, range 75-100%). Accurate identification (PIdent above which errors totaled less than 5%) occurred for genera at PIdent values > 95 and families at PIdent values \u2265 91, suggesting these as heuristic thresholds for generic and familial identifications in spiders. Accuracy of identification increases with numbers of species/genus and genera/family in the library; above five genera per family and fifteen species per genus all identifications were correct. We propose that using percent sequence identity between conventional barcode sequences may be a feasible and reasonably accurate method to identify animals to family/genus. However, the quality of the underlying database impacts accuracy of results; many outliers in our dataset could be attributed to taxonomic and/or sequencing errors in BOLD and GenBank. It seems that an accurate and complete reference library of families and genera of life could provide accurate higher level taxonomic identifications cheaply and accessibly, within years rather than decades.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1633/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Taxonomy'], [u'National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution', u'Department of Biology, University of Vermont', u'EZ Lab, Institute of Biology, Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts', u'Department of Invertebrates, Natural History Museum Bern', u'Department of Biology, Biotechnical Faculty, University of Ljubljana', u'Natural History Museum Bern', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge']]
[u'Charity is welcome: The international benefits and pitfalls of peer Review', ['Graham Steel', 'Amy Price', 'Bhavna Seth', 'Rakesh Biswas', 'Pranab Chatterjee'], u'2016-01-07', u'Peer review is the traditional method for validating academic work and this process is not without complications. Debates about the way peer reviewing is accomplished, the hazy but sensational world of retractions and the costs of publishing for authors are taking center stage. In no other field do people conceive and build the work, pay for it, inspect it, distribute it and buy it back again for their continued survival. Still after all this investment they can struggle for rights of access. In order to stem the tide of discontent, incentives for peer reviewers were introduced. The authors investigate the many faceted approaches to incentivize the process of peer review and consider what value they add, if any. The authors explore other avenues to benefit the largely anonymous and uncredited work of peer reviewers who remain the sentinels of the world of published evidence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1585/', ['Public Health', 'Ethical Issues', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy'], [u'Lead co-ordinator, Open Knowledge Foundation, Scotland, Open Knowledge', u'University of Oxford', u'Lady Hardinge Medical College', u'Department of Medicine, LN Medical College', u'Department of Community Medicine, University College of Medical Sciences, Delhi']]
[u'Natural occurrence of the entomopathogenic fungi Beauveria bassiana as a vertically transmitted endophyte of Pinus radiata and its effect on above- and below-ground insect pests', ['Marie-Caroline Lefort', 'Aimee C McKinnon', 'Tracey L Nelson', 'Travis R Glare'], u'2016-01-06', u'Background. The New Zealand forest industry would greatly benefit from a successful way of controlling insect pests. The entomopathogenic fungus, Beauveria bassiana could hold such potential and has previously been shown to be capable of endophytic colonisation of the Monterey pine Pinus radiata. Nevertheless clarifications on its mode of transmission, persistence and action in this plant are required. In this study we investigated B. bassiana transmission and persitence in P. radiata and whether this fungus is beneficial to P. radiata by testing its effect as a plant endophyte on the fitness performance of above and belowground insect feeders. Methods. Both culturing and molecular approaches were used to detect the occurrence B. bassiana in pines. Transmission electron microscopy of positive germinating seeds was also used to locate the fungus. Bioassays were conducted on root and needle feeding insects using Beauveria positive and endophyte free pine seedlings. Results. Beauveria bassiana was detected in seedlings which had not previously been exposed to the fungus, indicating a vertical mode of transmission. The fungus could colonise all parts of the pines, but did not always persist. We found that the presence of the fungus negatively affects the fitness of the below-ground insect feeding on the plant by reducing their survival by over 10% and their weight by 5%. This study also showed that the mode of action of endophytic B. bassiana in pine is likely to be by feeding deterrence of insects induced locally by fungal metabolites, rather than by direct fungal infection of the insects. Discussion. A vertically transmitted beneficial endophyte of pine could be used as a cost effective approach to control insect pest in these commercially grown trees.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1632/', ['Entomology', 'Mycology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Bio-Protection Research Centre', u'Department of Natural Sciences, Unitec Institute of Technology', u'AgResearch']]
[u'Integration of biochar and chemical fertilizer to enhance quality of soil and wheat crop (Triticum aestivum L.)', ['Usman Khalid Chaudhry', 'Salman Shahzad', 'Muhammad Nadir Naqqash', 'Abdul Saboor', 'Sana Yaqoob', 'Muhammad Salim', 'Muhammad Khalid'], u'2016-01-06', u'A wide variety of soil amendments like manures, compost, humic acid and bio-sorbents have been used to make nutrients available to crops as well as to protect them from toxic elements. Among soil amendments, biochar has been known to improve soil crumping, soil nutrients\u2019 availability to plants and ultimately the yield of crops. A field experiment was conducted by using biochar prepared from Dalbergia sissoo Roxb. wood by brick batch process. Two doses of biochar were applied to soil 0 and 12 t ha-1. Fertilizer rates used in the experiments were 25% recommended doses of fertilizers (RDF), 50% RDF, 75% RDF and 100% RDF alone & with biochar applied under two factorial randomized complete block design in natural field conditions (RDF of NPK fertilizer is 120-60-60 kg ha-1) . Soil physico-chemical properties viz., bulk density, particle density, porosity, pH, electrical conductivity, organic matter, soil organic carbon, total nitrogen, available phosphorus, available potassium, soil organic carbon, soil microbial biomass carbon and soil microbial biomass nitrogen were measured from the soil samples collected from 0-30 cm depth. All these parameters varied significantly among the treatments. A combined treatment of biochar and 50% of the recommended dose of NPK was most effective for soil conditioning. Agronomic parameters were also measured by standard methods. Due to chelation of heavy metal ions and availability of nutrients to the soil, yield of the crop may significantly increase due to cumulative treatment of fertilizer and biochar but upto a certain limit.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1631/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'Institute of Soil & Environmental Sciences, University of Agriculture Faisalabad', u'Department of Plant production and technologies, Faculty of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Nigde University']]
[u'Direct numerical simulation of transitional pulsatile stenotic flow using Lattice Boltzmann Method', ['Kartik Jain'], u'2016-01-06', u'The present contribution reports direct numerical simulations of pulsatile flow through a 75% eccentric stenosis using the Lattice Boltzmann Method (LBM). The stenosis was previously studied by Varghese, Frankel, and Fischer in a benchmark computation, and the goal of this work is to evaluate the LBM and the solver Musubi for transitional flows in anatomically realistic geometries. A part of the study compares the LBM simulation results against the benchmark and evaluates the efficacy of most basic LBM scheme for simulation of such flows. The novelty lies in the computation of Kolmogorov micro-scales by performing simulations that consist of up to \u223c 700 million cells. Recommendations on the choice of spatial and temporal resolutions for simulation of transitional flows in complex geometries naturally arise from the results. The LBM results show an excellent agreement with the previously published results thereby validating the method and the solver Musubi for the simulation of transitional flows. The study suggests that with a prudent calibration of the parameters, the LB method, due to its simplicity and compute efficiency has advantages for the simulation of such flows.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1548/', ['Computational Biology', 'Neurology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Simulation Techniques and Scientific Computing, University of Siegen', u'Center for Biomedical Computing, Simula Research Laboratory']]
[u'Responses of microbial community from tropical pristine coastal soil to crude oil contamination', ['Daniel Morais', 'Victor Pylro', 'Ian M Clark', 'Penny R Hirsch', 'Marcos Totola'], u'2016-01-06', u'Brazilian offshore crude oil exploration has increased after the discovery of new reservoirs in the region known as pr\xe9-sal, in a depth of 7.000 m under the water surface. Oceanic Islands near these areas represent sensitive environments, where changes in microbial communities due to oil contamination could cause the loss of metabolic functions, with catastrophic effects to the soil services provided from these locations. This work aimed to evaluate the effect of petroleum contamination on microbial community shifts (Archaea, Bacteria and Fungi) from Trindade Island coastal soils. Microcosms were assembled and divided into two treatments, control and contaminated (weathered crude oil at the concentration of 30 g kg-1), in triplicate. Soils were incubated for 38 days, with CO2 measurements every four hours. After incubation, the total DNA was extracted, purified and submitted for high-throughput target sequencing of 16S rDNA, for Bacteria and Archaea domains and Fungal ITS1 region, using the Illumina MiSeq platform. Three days after contamination, the CO2 emission rate peaked at more than 20x the control and the emissions remained higher during the whole incubation period. Microbial alpha-diversity was reduced for contaminated-samples. Fungal relative abundance of contaminated samples was reduced to almost 40% of the total observed species. Taxonomy comparisons showed a rise of the Actinobacteria phylum, shifts in several Proteobacteria classes and reduction of the Archaea class Nitrososphaerales in oil contaminated microcosms. This is the first effort in acquiring knowledge concerning the effect of crude oil contamination in soils of a Brazilian oceanic island. This information is important to guide any future bioremediation strategy that may be required.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1254/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biotechnology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Universidade Federal de Vi\xe7osa', u'Genomics and Computational Biology Group, Ren\xe9 Rachou Research Center (CPqRR-FIOCRUZ)', u'AgroEcology Department, Rothamsted Research']]
[u'Questions of Time and Affect: A person\u2019s affectivity profile, time perspective, and well-being', ['Danilo Garcia', 'Uta Sailer', 'Ali Al Nima', 'Trevor Archer'], u'2016-01-06', u'Background: A \u201cbalanced\u201d time perspective has been suggested to have a positive influence on well-being: a sentimental and positive view of the past (high Past Positive), a less pessimistic attitude toward the past (low Past Negative), the desire of experiencing pleasure with slight concern for future consequences (high Present Hedonistic), a less fatalistic and hopeless view of the future (low Present Fatalistic), and the ability to find reward in achieving specific long-term goals (high Future). We used the affective profiles model (i.e., combinations of individuals\u2019 experience of high/low positive/negative affectivity) to investigate differences between individuals in time perspective dimensions and to investigate if the influence of time perspective dimensions on well-being was moderated by the individual\u2019s type of profile. Method: Participants (N = 720) answered to the Positive Affect Negative Affect Schedule, the Zimbardo Time Perspective Inventory and two measures of well-being: the Temporal Satisfaction With Life Scale and the Scales of Psychological Well-Being-short version. A Multivariate Analysis of Variance (MANOVA) was conducted to identify differences in time perspective dimensions and well-being among affective profiles. Four Structural Equation Models (SEM) were used to investigate which time perspective dimensions predicted well-being for each profile. Results: Comparisons between individuals at the extreme of the affective profiles model suggested that individuals with a self-fulfilling profile (high positive/low negative affect) were characterized by a \u201cbalanced\u201d time perspective and higher well-being compared to individuals with a self-destructive profile (low positive/high negative affect). However, a different pattern emerged when individuals who differed in one affect dimension but matched in the other were compared to each other. For instance, decreases in the past negative time perspective dimension lead to high positive affect when negative affect is high (i.e., self-destructive vs. high affective) but to low negative affect when positive affect was high (i.e., high affective vs. self-fulfilling). The moderation analyses showed, for example, that for individuals with a self-destructive profile, psychological well-being was significantly predicted by the past negative, present fatalistic and future time perspectives. Among individuals with a high affective or a self-fulfilling profile, psychological well-being was significantly predicted by the present fatalistic dimension. Conclusions: The interactions found here go beyond the postulation of a \u201cbalanced\u201d time perspective being the only way of promoting well-being. Instead, it presents a more person-centered approach to achieve higher levels of emotional, cognitive, and psychological well-being.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1630/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Blekinge Center for Competence, Blekinge County Council', u'Department of Psychology, University of Gothenburg', u'Network for Empowerment and Well-Being, University of Gothenburg', u'Centre for Ethics, Law, and Mental Health (CELAM), University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Psychology, Lund University']]
[u'Investigation of the abundance, distribution and composition of microplastics at coastal upwelling sites in the Atlantic Ocean', ['La Daana K Kanhai', 'Rick Officer', "Ian O'Connor", 'Richard C Thompson'], u'2016-01-06', u'Microplastics are an issue of international concern due to the fact that these substances may potentially threaten biota by (i) causing physical harm, (ii) transporting persistent, bioaccumulating and toxic (PBT) substances and, (iii) leaching plastic additives. Within the world\u2019s oceans, areas which experience coastal upwelling are biota rich due to their high levels of primary productivity. The assessment of microplastic presence in areas which experience coastal upwelling is vital as it will indicate whether microplastics are an issue of concern in areas which support key biological resources. The null hypothesis of the present study is that microplastic abundance will be lower in areas where there is upwelling. As such, the present study aims to investigate whether microplastic abundance in upwelled areas in the Atlantic Ocean is significantly different from non-upwelled areas. Based on an opportunistic voyage aboard the RV Polarstern, microplastics will be sampled in sub-surface waters along a diverse latitudinal gradient in the Atlantic Ocean i.e. from Bremerhaven (Germany) to Cape Town (South Africa). Based on the proposed route, it will be possible to determine microplastic levels at two areas of coastal upwelling in the Atlantic Ocean (i) Canary Upwelling Ecosystem (CUE) and (ii) Benguela Upwelling Ecosystem (BUE). The results will then be analysed to determine whether there was a statistically significant difference between \u2018upwelled areas\u2019 and \u2018non-upwelled areas\u2019.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1629/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Marine and Freshwater Research Centre, Galway Mayo Institute of Technology', u'School of Marine Science and Engineering, University of Plymouth']]
[u'Interplay between peptide bond geometry and local conformation: molecular dynamics analyses', ['Nicole Balasco', 'Luciana Esposito', 'Luigi Vitagliano'], u'2016-01-06', u'Several statistical and quantum chemical investigations performed in the last two decades have unveiled a strong correlation between protein backbone geometry (bond angles, dihedral angles and pyramidalization) and the local conformation (Berkholz et al. 2012 ; Berkholz et al. 2009 ; Esposito et al. 2005 ; Esposito et al. 2000 ; Esposito et al. 2013; Improta et al. 2011 ; Karplus 1996). This finding has important implication for protein structure prediction, determination, refinement and validation. Predictive protein modeling has shown an improved convergence when these effects are considered. Therefore, force fields currently available for modeling and molecular dynamics should be able to reproduce these geometric properties. We have recently shown that quantum mechanics calculations on small peptide systems are able to reproduce the dependence of the bond distances/angles on the conformation and the interplay between the peptide bond distortions from planarity and \u03c8 dihedral angle thus demonstrating that the peptide bond geometry of proteins is essentially ruled by local effects (Improta et al. 2015). We here evaluated the ability of several commonly used force fields to reproduce subtle structural details related to the peptide bond. Our results indicate that these force fields are unable to accurately reproduce the experimental/statistical trends.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1628/', ['Computational Biology'], [u'National Research Council, Institute of Biostructures and Bioimaging', u'DiSTABiF, Second University of Naples']]
[u'Sex expression and floral diversity in Jatropha curcas: A population study in its center of origin', ['Maria de Lourdes Adriano-Anaya', 'Edilma Perez-Castillo', 'Miguel Salvador-Figueroa', 'Sonia Ruiz-Gonzalez', 'Jose Alfredo Vazquez-Ovando', 'Julieta J Grajales-Conesa', 'Isidro Ovando-Medina'], u'2016-01-05', u'Sex expression and floral morphology studies are central to understand breeding behavior and to define the productive potential of plant genotypes. In particular, the new bioenergy crop Jatropha curcas L. has been classified as a monoecious species. Nonetheless, there is no information about its reproductive diversity in the Mesoamerican region, which is considered its center of origin and diversification. Thus, we determined sex expression and floral morphology in J. curcas populations from southern Mexico and Guatemala. Our results showed that most of J. curcas specimens had typical inflorescences separate sexes (monoecious), meanwhile the rest were atypical (gynoecious, androecious, andromonoecious, androgynomonoecious). The most important variables to group these populations, based on a discriminant analysis, were: male flower diameter, female petal length and male nectary length. From the southern Mexico "Guerrero" was the most diverse population and in Chiapas "Centro". On the other hand, a cluster analysis showed that the accessions from southern Mexico were grouped without showing any correlation with the geographical origin, while those accessions with atypical sexuality were grouped together. Additionally, a Mantel test showed a significant correlation between the distance matrix generated in this study and the genetic distance matrix (AFLP) previously reported for the same accessions. Our results contribute to design genetic improvement programs by using sexually and morphologically contrasting plants from the center of origin.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1627/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Statistics'], [u'Instituto de Biociencias, Universidad Autonoma de Chiapas']]
[u'Treating patients with compounds or biological agents that pass the safety-test', ['Jianyi Zhang'], u'2016-01-05', u'There are numerous medical disorders without effective treatments. It is possible that many of un-treatable conditions need more than one compound co-operatively for improvement or cure. Approval of drugs in the U.S. is governed by a rigorous review process by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulation. A sponsor must demonstrate the drug\u2019s safety and efficacy in well controlled clinical trials in the proper patient population for which it is indicated. Development of a new compound entity (NCE) is a very costly and time-consuming process; it takes roughly 15 years and 1.5 billion dollars on average. The high cost of the process makes the development of a new drug with multiple NCEs almost impossible. There are many compounds or biological agents which pass the safety test, but fail in the efficacy test. Those compounds might be critical for treatment of these medical conditions. The author suggests that compounds or biological agents, which pass the safety test, but the fail in efficacy test, should be allowed to use in clinical setting. The safety of those compounds is comparable with any other drugs approved by FDA. Benefits would heavily outweigh risks for patients treated by those compounds. The same principle should also be applied to biological agents, such as vaccines against HIV infection, cancers, etc.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1626/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Health Policy', 'Public Health'], [u'Self employed, Ace Care']]
[u'Biofilter for treating toluene vapors: Performance evaluation and microbial counts behavior', ['Yazhong Zhu', 'Shunyi Li', 'Yimeng Luo', 'Hongye Ma', 'Yan Wang'], u'2016-01-05', u'A lab-scale biofilter packed with mixed packing materials was used for degradation of the toluene. Three gas flow rates, i.e. 0.1, 0.2 and 0.4 m3/h, were tested for inlet concentration ranging from 0.2 to 1.2 g/m3. Removal efficiencies ranging from 45.6 to 97.3% and elimination capacities ranging from 4.95 to 61.07 g/(m3 h) were observed depending on the inlet loading rates. Maximum elimination capacity of 35.95 g/(m3 h) occurred at inlet loading rate of 45.87 g/(m3 h). The lowest layer always had highest elimination capacity. Carbon dioxide concentrations and the microbial cell counts for bio-degraders followed toluene elimination capacities. Results of this study indicated that mixed packing materials could be considered as a potential biofilter carrier, with low pressure drop (less than 84.9 Pa/m), for treating air streams containing VOCs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1625/', ['Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'School of Chemical Engineering and Energy, Zhengzhou University']]
[u'Derivation of kernel of dynamic support vector machines: Stochastic and deterministic data process', ['Masamichi Sato'], u'2016-01-05', u'We give an analytic derivation of kernel of dynamic support vector machine (DSVM). We show them for the cases of the data processes with stochastic and deterministic changes. We derive the kernels by solving Bellman equations. For the stochastic case, Gaussian kernel is naturally derived. For the deterministic case, the kernel is derived in the form of traveling wave. We also give comments from physical viewpoints in the context of information geometry. Physical comments include the equivalence principle in information geometric context and the relation to AdS/CFT correspondence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1624/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'E-Commerce, Book Store']]
[u'Phenotypical expression of reduced mobility during limb ontogeny in frogs: the knee-joint case', ['Maria Laura Ponssa', 'Virginia Abdala'], u'2015-12-31', u'Movement is one of the most important epigenetic factors for normal development of the muscle-skeletal system, particularly during genesis and joint development. Studies regarding alterations to embryonic mobility, performed on anurans, chickens and mammals, report important phenotypical similarities as a result of the reduction or absence of this stimulus. The precise stage of development at which the stimulus modification generates phenotypic modifications however, is yet to be determined. In this work we explore whether the developmental effects of abnormal mobility can appear at any time during development or whether they begin to express themselves in particular phases of tadpole ontogeny. We conducted five experiments that showed that morphological abnormalities are not visible until Stages 40\u201342. Morphology in earlier stages remains normal, probably due to the fact that the bones/muscles/tendons have not yet developed and therefore are not affected by immobilization. These results suggest the existence of a specific period of phenotypical expression in which normal limb movement is necessary for the correct development of the joint tissue framework.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1623/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Histology'], [u'CONICET-Fundaci\xf3n Miguel Lillo, Unidad Ejecutora Lillo (UEL)', u'C\xe1tedra de Biolog\xeda General, Facultad de Ciencias Naturales e IML, UNT, Instituto de Biodiversidad Neotropical (IBN), UNT - CONICET']]
[u'Sustained attention in skilled and novice martial arts athletes: A study of event-related potentials and current sources', ['Javier Sanchez-Lopez', 'Juan Silva-Pereyra', 'Thalia Fernandez'], u'2015-12-31', u'Background. Research on sports has revealed that behavioral responses and event-related brain potentials (ERP) are better in expert than in novice athletes for sport-related tasks. Focused attention is essential for optimal athletic performance across different sports but mainly in combat disciplines. During combat, long periods of focused attention (i.e., sustained attention) are required for a good performance. Few investigations have reported effects of expertise on brain electrical activity and its neural generators during sport-unrelated attention tasks. The aim of the present study was to assess the effect of expertise (i.e., skilled and novice martial arts athletes) analyzing the ERP during a sustained attention task (Continuous Performance Task; CPT) and the cortical three-dimensional distribution of current density, using the sLORETA technique. Methods. CPT consisted in an oddball-type paradigm presentation of five stimuli (different pointing arrows) where only one of them (an arrow pointing up right) required a motor response (i.e., target). CPT was administered to skilled and novice martial arts athletes while EEG were recorded. Amplitude ERP data from target and non-target stimuli were compared between groups. Subsequently, current source analysis for each ERP component was performed on each subject. sLORETA images were compared by condition and group using Statistical Non-Parametric Mapping analysis. Results. Skilled athletes showed significant amplitude differences between target and non-target conditions in early ERP components (P100 and P200) as opposed to the novice group; however, skilled athletes showed no significant effect of condition in N200 but novices did show a significant effect. Current source analysis showed greater differences in activations in skilled compared with novice athletes between conditions in the frontal (mainly in the Superior Frontal Gyrus and Medial Frontal Gyrus) and limbic (mainly in the Anterior Cingulate Gyrus) lobes. Discussion. These results are supported by previous findings regarding activation of neural structures that underlie sustained attention. Our findings may indicate a better-controlled attention in skilled athletes, which suggests that expertise can improve effectiveness in allocation of attentional resources during the first stages of cognitive processing during combat.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1622/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Departamento de Neurobiologia Conductual y Cognitiva, Instituto de Neurobiologia, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico', u'Unidad de Investigacion Interdisciplinaria en Ciencias de la Salud y la Educacion, Facultad de Estudios Superiores Iztacala, Universidad Nacional Autonoma de Mexico']]
[u'Phosphorus mobilizing consortium Mammoth P enhances plant growth', ['Peter Baas', 'Colin Bell', 'Lauren M Mancini', 'Melanie N Lee', 'Richard T Conant', 'Matthew D Wallenstein'], u'2015-12-31', u'Global agricultural productivity may be constrained by the finite and limited supply of phosphorus (P), adding to the challenges in meeting the projected needs of a growing human population in the coming decades. In addition, when P fertilizers are added to soils, they can become bound to soils resulting in low fertilizer efficiency. However, P-mobilizing bacteria could potentially liberate soil-bound P, resulting in a higher plant P uptake and increased yield. Bacteria can mobilize P through several mechanisms, suggesting that consortia of P-bacteria may be more effective than single species. Species diversity can have a synergistic, or non-additive, effect on ecosystem functioning (\u201cthe whole is more than the sum of its parts\u201d) but rarely is the microbial community structure intentionally managed to improve plant nutrient uptake. We investigated whether inoculation of soils with a four-species bacterial community developed to mobilize soil P could increase plant productivity. In wheat and turf trials, we found that Mammoth P was able to deliver yields equivalent to those achieved using conventional fertilizer applications. Herbs and fruits showed that the combination of fertilizer with Mammoth P significantly increased productivity - in some cases productivity doubled. Metabolites produced by the Mammoth P consortium led to increased yields in some cases, suggesting that microbial products (produced in the absence of plants) played a role in enhancing plant productivity. Results from these trials indicate substantial potential of Mammoth P to enhance P supply to plants, improving P fertilizer use-efficiency and increasing agricultural productivity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1621/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Soil Science'], [u'Natural Resource Ecology Laboratory, Colorado State University', u'Growcentia Inc.']]
[u'The feature of morphological traits and their effects on body weight in the red crab (Charybdis feriata)', ['Xiong Zou', 'Hongyu Ma', 'Jianxue Lu', 'Yangyang Gong', 'Lianjun Xia'], u'2015-12-31', u'The red crab (Charybdis feriata) is one of most important fishery resources in China. In the present study, we first measured 17 morphological traits and body weight of C. feriata, characterized these 18 traits, and then estimated the effects of morphological traits on body weight by statistical methods including correlation coefficients, determination coefficients, path coefficients, and regression equation. All correlation coefficients between 17 morphological traits and body weight reached an extremely significant level (P<0.01). Determination and path coefficients analysis revealed the real correlation relationship between the independent variables and the dependent variable. Significant path coefficients were found between three morphological traits (stemum width, X8; meropodite length of pereopod 3, X16; meropodite length of pereopod 4, X17) and body weight that suggested these three traits were the key traits directly influence body weight. Multiple correlation index (R2) between above three morphological traits and body weight was of 0.977, which indicated that the main independent variables influencing body weight has been found. Finally a best-fit linear regression equation was established as Y = 13.078 X8 + 7.048 X16 - 4.902 X17 - 576.635, which provided an ideal model for better understanding the feature of morphological traits and body weight of C. feriata.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1620/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Key Laboratory of East China Sea and Oceanic Fishery Resources Exploitation, Ministry of Agriculture, East China Sea Fisheries Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences']]
[u'On Machine Learning applications with algebraic geometry', ['Sasikanth Goteti'], u'2015-12-31', u'In this article, we briefly describe various tools and approaches that algebraic geometry has to offer to straighten bent objects. throughout this article we will consider a specific example of a bent or curved piece of paper which in our case acts very much like an elastica curve. We generalize this model to various shapes of paper which are stretched and bent and then finally implement it on a standard 80mg paper and see how the folds on paper can be completely removed using python and sage-math code. We conclude this article with a suggestion to algebraic geometry as a viable and fast performer alternative of neural networks in vision and machine learning.The purpose of this article is not to build a full blown framework but to show evidence or possibility of using algebraic geometry as an alternative to recognizing or extracting features on manifolds.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1618/', ['Computer Vision', 'Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing'], [u'RnD, Gunaatita']]
[u'Certified Family Service Coordinator: A model for professional practice and recognition', ['Donald B. Stouder'], u'2015-12-30', u'The use of the Family Service Coordinator is still a relative newcomer to the organ procurement/transplantation field. Since no comprehensive training and recognition program exists, Lifesharing, A Donate Life Organization, decided to develop a Certified Family Service Coordinator program. We defined the goals of the program as 1) to improve the care we provide to our families and increase consent for organ donation; 2) to streamline and standardize our best practices; 3) to learn new skills and improve individual understanding and practice; 4) to share our own wealth of experience; and 5) to provide professional certification and recognition. In addition, given the limitations of time and resources that affect most organ procurement organizations, we wanted to see if a comprehensive training program could be developed using resources that were easily and inexpensively acquired on the Internet.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1617/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Ethical Issues', 'Palliative Care'], [u'UC Health Sciences: Lifesharing, University of California, San Diego']]
[u'Western scrub-jays do not appear to attend to functionality in Aesop\u2019s Fable experiments', ['Corina J Logan', 'Brigit D Harvey', 'Barney A Schlinger', 'Michelle Rensel'], u'2015-12-30', u'Western scrub-jays are known for their highly discriminatory and flexible behaviors in a caching (food storing) context. However, it is unknown whether their cognitive abilities are restricted to a caching context. To explore this question, we tested scrub-jays in a non-caching context using the Aesop\u2019s Fable paradigm, where a partially filled tube of water contains a floating food reward and objects must be inserted to displace the water and bring the food within reach. We found that scrub-jays did not attend to the functional properties of objects or tubes, and were not motivated to participate in these experiments, suggesting that either this paradigm was ecologically irrelevant or perhaps their flexibility is restricted to a caching context.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1616/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Zoology, University of Cambridge', u'SAGE Center for the Study of the Mind, University of California, Santa Barbara', u'Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of California, Los Angeles', u'Laboratory of Neuroendocrinology, Brain Research Institute, University of California, Los Angeles', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California, Los Angeles']]
[u'Plastome data reveal multiple geographic origins of Quercus Group Ilex', ['Marco Cosimo Simeone', 'Guido W Grimm', 'Alessio Papini', 'Federico Vessella', 'Simone Cardoni', 'Enrico Tordoni', 'Roberta Piredda', 'Alain Franc', 'Thomas Denk'], u'2015-12-30', u'Nucleotide sequences from the plastome are currently the main source for assessing taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships in flowering plants and their historical biogeography at all hierarchical levels. One exception is the large and economically important genus Quercus (oaks). Whereas differentiation patterns of the nuclear genome are in agreement with morphology and the fossil record, diversity patterns in the plastome are at odds with established taxonomic and phylogenetic relationships. However, the extent and evolutionary implications of this incongruence has yet to be fully uncovered. The DNA sequence divergence of four Euro-Mediterranean Group Ilex oak species (Quercus ilex  L., Q. coccifera L., Q. aucheri Jaub. & Spach., Q. alnifolia Poech.) was explored at three chloroplast markers (rbcL, trnK-matK, trnH-psbA). Phylogenetic relationships were reconstructed including worldwide members of additional 55 species representing all Quercus subgeneric groups. Family and order sequence data were harvested from gene banks to better frame the observed divergence in larger taxonomic contexts. We found a strong geographic sorting in the focal group and the genus in general that is entirely decoupled from species boundaries. Main plastid haplotypes shared by distinct oak lineages from the same geographic region and high plastid diversity in members of Group Ilex are indicative for a polyphyletic origin of their plastomes. The results suggest that incomplete lineage sorting and repeated phases of unidirectional introgression among ancestral lineages of Group Ilex and two other main Groups of Eurasian oaks (Cyclobalanopsis and Cerris) caused this complex pattern. Comparison with the current phylogenetic synthesis also suggests an initial high- versus mid-latitude biogeographic split within Quercus. High plastome plasticity of Group Ilex reflects geographic area disruptions, possibly linked with high tectonic activity of past and modern distribution ranges, that did not leave imprints in the nuclear genome of modern species and infrageneric lineages.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1615/', ['Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Agricultural and Forestry Science (DAFNE), Universit\xe0 degli Studi della Tuscia', u'Department of Palaeontology, University of  Wien', u'Dipartimento di Biologia, Universit\xe0 degli studi di Firenze', u'Department of Life Science, Universit\xe0 degli studi di Trieste', u'Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'INRA, UMR BIOGECO-1202', u'UMR BIOGECO-1202, Universit\xe9 Bordeaux', u'Department of Palaeobiology, Swedish Museum of Natural History']]
[u'Effects of trait variation, environment, and phylogeny on the air pollutant removal capacity of indoor plants', ['Shan Lu', 'Guang Hu', 'Bo Chen', 'Ye Zheng', "Yi'nan Lai", 'Jing Jing'], u'2015-12-30', u'Although it is well known that plants have the capacity to remove indoor air pollutants, there has been little research to investigate how this ability is regulated by the environment and evolutionary processes. In this study, we tested the capacity of 58 common indoor plants to remove three specific air pollutants. We also measured the traits, phylogenetic signals, and cultivated environments of these plants to analyze their relationship with the air pollutant removal capacity using Spearman\u2019s correlation, Blomberg\u2019s K test, and phylogenetic generalized least-squares. While we found trait variation had a significant correlation with removal capacity, we did not, however, detect a phylogenetic signal with removal capacity. Trait variation and environmental factors both contributed to the removal capacity in phylogenetic generalized least-squares, but again, without phylogeny. Our results show that plant trait variation, especially total leaf area, could play an important role in plant\u2019s capacity to remove pollutants from indoor air. Moreover, environmental changes, not the phylogeny, could result in trait modification, improving the tolerance and purification capacities of these plants. The findings outlined here will help to explain how plants living with air pollution can adapt as well as the application of plants for the purpose of indoor air purification.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1614/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science'], [u'School of Civil Engineering and Architecture, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University']]
[u'Sibutramine antinociceptive effect in female rodents is not dependent on catecholaminergic signaling', ['Maria Sales', 'Karolinne S Figueiredo', 'Juvenia B Fontenele', 'Glauce SB Viana', 'Francisco HC Felix'], u'2015-12-30', u'\u200bSibutramine has a mechanism of action similar to that of antidepressants used as analgesics (like duloxetine). Limited data exists regarding the analgesic action of sibutramine. We tested increasing doses of p.o. sibutramine (0.1, 0.5, 1.5, 5.0 mg/kg) in the writhing test in female mice and in the plantar thermal hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan in female rats. The results showed a statistically significant (p<0.001) dose-response antinociceptive effect of sibutramine in these models, with a maximum effect comparable to the effect of a high dose of ASA (200 mg/kg) in mice and amitriptyline (10mg/kg) or indomethacin (10mg/kg) in rats. Rotarod test with sibutramine-treated rats ruled out motor impairment. Sibutramine-induced antinociception was not reverted by reserpine or yohimbine pre-treatment, suggesting that catecholamines and alpha-2-adrenoceptors are not involved in this effect.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1544/', ['Neuroscience', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Biophysiology and Pharmacology, Faculdade de Medicina de Juazeiro do Norte', u'Department of Pharmacy, Universidade Federal do Cear\xe1', u'Pediatric Cancer Center, Hospital Infantil Albert Sabin']]
[u'Valproate antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effect in female rodents', ['Karolinne S Figueiredo', 'Maria LAO Sales', 'Juvenia B Fontenele', 'Glauce SB Viana', 'Francisco H Felix'], u'2015-12-30', u'Valproate, an indirect \u03b3-aminobutiric acid agonist has been successfully used in various painful conditions. Despite its frequent use, limited pre-clinical and clinical data exist about its analgesic effect. We tested valproate p.o. in increasing doses (10, 25, 50, 100 mg/kg) in acute nociception models in mice (writhing test and formalin licking-paw test) and in acute primary thermal hyperalgesia induced by carrageenan in rats, comparing its effects to a non-treated control and morphine (5 mg/kg), amitriptyline (10 mg/kg) or indomethacin (10 mg/kg). Valproate showed a statiscally significant (p<0.001) dose-response effect in these models, both in male and female mice and in female rats. Antihyperalgesic effect of valproate in the plantar model was not reverted by reserpine pre-treatment. Interestingly, the maximum effect of valproate on this model occurred at a dose of 50mg/kg and the higher dose of 100mg/kg showed a minor effect. Additionally, we demonstrated that valproate has anti-inflammatory effect in the carrageenan-induced oedema model in male and female mice. Valproate antinociceptive and anti-inflammatory effects seem not to be gender-specific in animal models.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1613/', ['Neuroscience', 'Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Biophysiology and Pharmacology, Faculdade de Medicina de Juazeiro do Norte', u'Department of Pharmacy, Universidade Federal do Cear\xe1', u'Pediatric Cancer Center, Hospital Infantil Albert Sabin']]
[u'Predicting the potential distributions of Senecio vulgaris L. in China', ['Dandan Cheng', 'Lin Xu'], u'2015-12-28', u'Predicting potential distribution for alien plants by species distribution model (SDM, or Ecological Niche Model) using occurrence data and habitat environmental variables plays an important role in management of the invasive risk by an alien plant. Common groundsels (Senecio vulgaris, Asteracea), native in Eurasia and North Africa, has been a cosmopolitan weed in temperature and also listed as one of invasive plants in China. We predict the potential distribution of this species in the world and in China particularly in Maxent (maximum entropy) models by using global occurrence records of S. vulgaris and the associated climate variables. The occurrence data were collected from the online databases, Global Biodiversity Information Facility database (GBIF), Chinese Virtual Herbarium database (CVH), and also from field work in China. The climate variables were download from WorldClim (http://www.worldclim.org). The occurrence records showed that S. vulgaris is present in 16 provinces or regions in north \u2013 eastern, south \u2013 western, central and north China, and almost not present in south \u2013 eastern, north \u2013 western China. The mapping of S. vulgaris potential distribution is diagonally across China, including the north \u2013 eastern, south \u2013 western China, and the cool area between the two regions. Analysis of the contribution and importance of climatic factors in the prediction model indicated that S. vulgaris adapts to the climate in humid and cool area in China (annual mean temperature ranges 2.4 ~ 17.5 \u2103, and annual precipitation ranges 550 ~ 1500 mm). It is suggested that special attention should be paid to the plain in NE China and Shandong Peninsula, Yungui Plateau, the cool mountain area around Sichuan basin, in western Hubei, southern Shaanxi, Shanxi and around Beijing in order to manage the invasion risk by S. vulgaris. The better performance of the model built by using occurrence data in China than that by using the global data in relation the predict outcome in China imply that it is might be better to use regional data than the global data when predict potential distribution for an alien plant with long invasive history in study area.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1612/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'School of Environmental Studies; State Key Laboratory of Biogeology and Environmental Geology, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan)', u'Institution of Biology, Leiden University', u'School of Environmental Studies, China University of Geosciences (Wuhan)']]
[u'Transcranial direct current stimulation in mild cognitive impairment: methodology for a randomized controlled trial', ['Aline S Alencastro', 'Danilo A Pereira', 'Joaquim P Brasil-Neto'], u'2015-12-28', u'Background: Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a non-invasive neuromodulatory technique that has shown encouraging results regarding performance improvement of normal subjects in tests of executive functions. Moreover, when applied repeatedly in daily sessions, tDCS has shown therapeutic potential in various neuropsychiatric disorders. However, there is a need for double-blind, placebo-controlled studies to determine the true therapeutic potential of this portable, low-cost and non-invasive treatment. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) of the amnestic subtype may evolve into Alzheimer\u2019s dementia (AD) and pharmacological approaches have not been successful in ameliorating symptoms or halting progression to AD. Here we propose a protocol for studying a possible role for tDCS on improvement of MCI symptoms in older patients. Methods/Design: This will be a double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the effects of anodal tDCS over the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex of patients with MCI. Patients aged 60-90 years will be randomly assigned to either real tDCS or sham stimulation. Twenty-minute real or sham tDCS sessions, 5 days a week, will be performed over the course of two weeks. The Rivermead Behavioural Memory Test (RBMT), California Verbal Learning Test, Rey Verbal Auditory Learning Test (RVALT) and Digit Span (WAIS-IV) will be assessed at baseline, after the first and second weeks of treatment, as well as one and three months after the last tDCS session. The primary outcome will be change in test scores over time. Secondary outcomes will be self-reported memory improvement and possible side effects of tDCS. Discussion: This study will evaluate possible therapeutic applications of tDCS for treatment of MCI. tDCS is a portable and low-cost neuromodulatory technique that has been found to increase performance of both normal subjects and patients in many cognitive tasks. It will also examine the tolerability, program adherence and possible side effects of this novel technique in this age group. The information obtained in this study should be useful in planning further studies in which tDCS could be combined with other treatment modalities, such as cognitive training.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1610/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Physiological Sciences, University of Bras\xedlia', u'Instituto Brasileiro de Neuropsicologia e Ci\xeancias Cognitivas']]
[u'The dark cube: Dark and light character profiles', ['Danilo Garcia', 'Patricia Rosenberg'], u'2015-12-28', u'Background: Research addressing distinctions and similarities between people\u2019s malevolent character traits (i.e., the Dark Triad: Machiavellianism, narcissism, and psychopathy) has detected mixed and inconsistent linear associations to temperament traits. On this basis, some researchers suggest that the dark traits are best represented as one global construct (i.e., the unification argument) rather than as ternary construct (i.e., the uniqueness argument). Here we put forward the dark cube (cf. Cloninger\u2019s character cube) comprising eight dark profiles that can be used to compare individuals who differ in one dark character trait while holding the other two constant. Our aim was to investigate in which circumstances individuals who are high in each one of the dark character traits differ in Cloninger\u2019s \u201clight\u201d character dimensions: self-directedness, cooperativeness, and self-transcendence. Additionally, we investigated if the people\u2019s dark character profiles were associated to their light character profiles. Method: A total of 997 participants recruited from Amazon\u2019s Mechanical Turk (MTurk) responded to the Short Dark Triad and the Short Character Inventory. Participants were allocated to eight different dark character profiles and eight light character profiles based on their scores in each of the traits and any possible combination of high and low scores. We used three-way interaction regression analyses and t-tests to investigate differences in Cloninger\u2019s character dimensions between individuals with different dark profiles. As a second step, we compared the individuals\u2019 dark profile with her/his character profile using an exact cell-wise analysis conducted in the ROPstat software ( http://www.ropstat.com ). Results: Individuals who expressed high levels of Machiavellianism and those who expressed high levels of psychopathy also expressed low self-directedness and low cooperativeness. Individuals with high levels of narcissism, in contrast, scored high in self-directedness. Moreover, individuals with a profile low in the dark traits were more likely to end up with a profile high in cooperativeness. The opposite was true for those individuals with a profile high in the dark traits. Conclusions: Our study suggests that individuals who are high in Machiavellianism and psychopathy share a unified non-agentic and uncooperative character (i.e., irresponsible, low in self-control, unempathetic, unhelpful, untolerant), while individuals high in narcissism have a more unique character configuration expressed as high in agency and, when the other dark traits are high, highly spiritual but uncooperative. In other words, based on differences in their associations to the light side of character, the Dark Triad seems to be a dyad rather than a triad.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1611/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Blekinge Center for Competence, Blekinge County Council', u'Department of Psychology, University of Gothenburg', u'Network for Empowerment and Well-Being, University of Gothenburg', u'Centre for Ethics, Law and Mental Health, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Psychology, Lund University']]
[u'PhySortR: a fast, flexible tool for sorting phylogenetic trees in R', ['Timothy G Stephens', 'Debashish Bhattacharya', 'Mark A Ragan', 'Cheong Xin Chan'], u'2015-12-28', u'A frequent bottleneck in interpreting phylogenomic output is the need to screen often thousands of trees for features of interest, such as robust clades of specific taxa, as evidence of monophyletic relationship and/or reticulated evolution. Here we present PhySortR, a fast, flexible R package for sorting phylogenetic trees. Unlike existing utilities, PhySortR allows for identification of both exclusive and non-exclusive clades uniting the target taxa, with customisable options to assess clades within the context of the whole tree. PhySortR is a command-line tool that is freely available, highly scalable, and easily automatable.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1609/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Institute for Molecular Bioscience, University of Queensland', u'Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Natural Resources, Rutgers, The State University of    New Jersey']]
[u'Microbiological activity and carbon mineralization in pampean soils with different agricultural use intensity', ['Ricardo A Castro-Huerta', 'Fernando R Momo', 'Liliana B Falco', 'Cesar A Di Ciocco', 'Carlos E Coviella'], u'2015-12-28', u'The processes involved in the flows of matter and energy of terrestrial ecosystems depends heavily on soil biological activity, the current conventional agricultural managements could alter the biological mechanisms involved in decomposition and nutrient cycling in agroecosystems. The aim of this study was to compare the activity levels and soil microbial biomass between different agricultural pampean soil uses and its relationship to carbon mineralization. 25 years of agricultural use were compared with 25 years of ecological reserve naturalized where each agroecosystem soil were collected at 61 - 125 - 183 - 236 - 302 - 368 - 431 - 488 days for measuring their moisture, organic matter, enzymatic activity, microbial biomass carbon, soil respiration, metabolic quotient, microbial quotient and carbon mineralization rate. The distance between agroecosystems is less than 800 m, thus assuming the same soil and climatic conditions. The data were evaluated by Friedman test finding significant differences in moisture, organic matter, enzymatic activity, soil respiration y microbial quotient (p< 0.01). Difference was also found in the microbial mineralization rate of carbon (p< 0.1).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1608/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Ecology Laboratory, Terrestrial Ecology Research Program, Basic Sciences Department \u2013 Ecology and Sustainable Development Institute, National University of Luj\xe1n', u'Agricultural Sciences Department, Faculty of Agricultural and Forestry Sciences, Catholic University of Maule', u'Sciences Institute, Area Biology and Bioinformatics, National University of General Sarmiento', u'Ecology Laboratory, Sustainable Agriculture Research Program, Basic Sciences Department \u2013 Ecology and Sustainable Development Institute, National University of Luj\xe1n']]
[u'The sex lives of ctenophores: the influence of light, body size, and self-fertilization on the reproductive output of the sea walnut, Mnemiopsis leidyi', ['Daniel A Sasson', 'Joseph F Ryan'], u'2015-12-23', u'Ctenophores (comb jellies) are emerging as important animals for investigating fundamental questions across numerous branches of biology (e.g., evodevo, neuroscience. and biogeography). Several ctenophore species including, most notably, Mnemiopsis leidyi, are known as invasive species, adding to the importance of studying the ecology of these animals. Despite the growing interest, relatively little is known about ctenophore reproduction. Like most ctenophores, M. leidyi is a simultaneous hermaphrodite capable of self-fertilization. In this study, we assess the influence of light on spawning, the effect of body size on spawning likelihood and reproductive output, and the cost of self-fertilization on egg viability in M. leidyi. Our results suggest that M. leidyi spawning is more strongly influenced by circadian rhythms than specific light clues, and that body size significantly impacts spawning and reproductive output. We also find a lower percentage of viable embryos from M. leidyi that were spawned alone versus those that were spawned in pairs, suggesting that self-fertilization may be costly in these animals. These results provide critical insight into the reproductive ecology of these ctenophores and provide a fundamental resource for researchers working with M. leidyi in the laboratory.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1607/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Florida', u'Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience']]
[u'A primer on regeneration', ['Labib Rouhana', 'Junichi Tasaki'], u'2015-12-23', u'Centuries of observation have uncovered a diverse range of organisms capable of overcoming loss of tissue. The act of restoring lost anatomy and function is known as regeneration, and it is broadly represented in both plant and animal kingdoms. Cumulative studies have identified a series of events that take place during regeneration of complex animal structures. First, the organism recognizes damage and undergoes wound healing. Then, programmed cell death in the vicinity of the damaged tissue precedes proliferation and migration of cells that foster the development of replacement tissue. Finally, rearrangement of pre-existing tissue and integration with newly differentiated cells take place to restore the function and proportionality displayed previous to damage . Although the ability to regenerate is believed to be ancestrally common and lost throughout evolution, there is significant heterogeneity of some basic mechanisms displayed during regeneration in different animal species. Perhaps one of the most noticeable differences is the cellular source contributing to formation of the new tissue during regeneration. Organisms such as planarians and Hydra rely on active reservoirs of somatic pluripotent stem cells abundantly distributed throughout their bodies and maintained throughout their life. On the other hand, vertebrates rely mostly on progenitor cell activation and dedifferentiation, to regenerate cells with limited potential to regenerate specific structures. However, not all regenerative events rely on cellular replacement. Leading edge research has begun to uncover mechanisms involved in autonomous repair and functional regeneration of single cells \u2013 be it neurons or ciliated protozoa. The fact that organisms can achieve regeneration through diverse cellular sources is remarkable, but just as remarkable is the possibility that conserved molecular pathways could be activated to achieve regeneration in different species. Analysis of these pathways will contribute to understanding human development and potential avenues for regenerative medicine.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1606/', ['Biodiversity', 'Developmental Biology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Wright State University']]
[u'A test of ecological and ethnolinguistic determinants of maize diversity in southern Mexico', ['Quetzalcoatl Orozco-Ramirez', 'Amalio Santacruz-Varela', 'Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra', 'Stephen B Brush'], u'2015-12-23', u'While prevailing theories of crop evolution suggest that crop diversity and cultural diversity should be linked, empirical evidence for such a link remains inconclusive. In particular, few studies have investigated such patterns on a local scale. Here, we address this issue by examining the determinants of maize diversity in a local region of high cultural and biological richness in Southern Mexico. We collected maize samples from villages at low and mid elevations in two adjacent municipalities of differing ethnicity: Mixtec or Chatino. Although morphological traits show few patterns of population structure, we see clear genetic differentiation among villages, with municipality explaining a larger proportion of the differentiation than altitude. Consistent with an important role of social origin in patterning seed exchange, metapopulation model-based estimates of differentiation match the genetic data within village and ethnically distinct municipalities, but underestimate differentiation when all four villages are taken together. Our research provides insights about the importance of social origin in structuring maize diversity at the local scale.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1192/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Genetics'], [u'Centro de Investigaciones en Geograf\xeda Ambiental, UNAM', u'Colegio de Postgraduados, Montecillo', u'Department of Plant Sciences, Center for Population Biology, and Genome Center, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Human Ecology, University of California']]
[u'Biodiversity collapse in a phase transition between neutral and niche communities', ['Leonardo A Saravia', 'Fernando R Momo'], u'2015-12-23', u'The dynamics of ecological communities can be described by two contrasting models: the first assumes that the individuals of all species are identical and do not have competitive interactions. The second assumes that species are different, adapted to particular habitat conditions, and have strong interactions. These represent extremes of a continuum: the neutral and the niche models of community organization. Real communities are actually a mixture of both types of dynamics. Here we study the simplest model of neutral-niche communities where niche dynamics is represented as a competitive hierarchy. The competition intensity is defined as a parameter that modulates the transition between these extremes. We use a stochastic cellular automata to show that there is a phase transition between the neutral and niche model with a spanning patch formed by the most abundant species. We measure the diversity as the Shannon index and the richness as the number of species. The transition implies a sharp fall of species diversity but the richness shows a gentle decline with increasing competitive intensity. As this kind of multi-species critical transition have not been described previously, we suggest new early warning signals: the rate of exponential decay in the patch distribution of the non-dominant species. This rate decreases when the community approaches the critical point and increases when the community crosses it. As an example we apply the early warnings to the Barro Colorado Tropical forest, which as expected, appear to be far from a critical transition. The model shows that the critical point occur at a very low value of competitive intensity. Low values of competitive intensity were also reported for different high diversity real communities suggesting the possibility that these kind of communities are located near the critical point. This transition could happen before habitat destruction or degradation affect the community in response to changes in environmental conditions like the ones produced by climate change or exotic species invasions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1589/', ['Biodiversity', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'\xc1rea Biolog\xeda y Bioinform\xe1tica, Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento', u'INEDES, Universidad Nacional de Luj\xe1n']]
[u'The (mis)measurement of the Dark Triad Dirty Dozen: Exploitation at the core of the scale', ['Petri J Kajonius', 'Bjorn N Persson', 'Patricia Rosenberg', 'Danilo Garcia'], u'2015-12-23', u'Background: The dark side of human character has been conceptualized in the Dark Triad Model: Machiavellianism, psychopathy, and narcissism. These three dark traits are often measured using single long instruments for each one of the traits. Nevertheless, there is a necessity of short and valid personality measures in psychological research. As an independent research group, we replicated the factor structure, convergent validity and item response for one of the most recent and widely used short measures to operationalize these malevolent traits, namely, Jonason\u2019s Dark Triad Dirty Dozen. We aimed to expand the understanding of what the Dirty Dozen really captures because the mixed results on construct validity in previous research. Method: We used the largest sample to date to respond to the Dirty Dozen (N = 3,698). We firstly investigated the Dirty Dozen\u2019s factor structure using Confirmatory Factor Analysis. Secondly, using sub-sample (n = 500) and correlation analyses, we investigated the Dirty Dozen dark traits convergent validity to Machiavellianism measured by the Mach-IV, psychopathy measured by Eysenck\u2019s Personality Questionnaire Revised, narcissisms using the Narcissism Personality Inventory, and both neuroticism and extraversion from the Eysenck\u2019s questionnaire. Finally, besides these Classic Test Theory analyses, we analyzed the responses for each Dirty Dozen item using Item Response Theory (IRT). Results: The results confirmed previous findings of a bi-factor model fit: one latent core dark trait, plus the three dark traits. An additional exploratory distribution analysis showed that all three Dirty Dozen traits had a striking bi-modal distribution, which might indicate unconcealed social undesirability with the items. The three Dirty Dozen traits did converge to, although not strongly, with the contiguous single Dark Triad scales (r between .41-.49). The probabilities of filling out steps on the Dirty Dozen narcissism-items were much higher than on the Dirty Dozen items for Machiavellianism and psychopathy. Overall, the Dirty Dozen instrument delivered the most predictive value with persons with average and high Dark Triad traits (Theta > -0.5). Moreover, the Dirty Dozen scale was better conceptualized as measured of a combined Machiavellianism-psychopathy factor, not narcissism, that can be replaced with item 4: \u2018I tend to exploit others towards my own end\u2019. Conclusion: The Dirty Dozen showed a consistent factor structure, a relatively convergent validity similar to that found in earlier studies. Narcissism measured using the Dirty Dozen, however, did not contribute with information to the core constitution of the Dirty Dozen construct. More importantly, the results imply a Single Item Dirty Dark Triad (SIDDT) measure of a manipulative and anti-social core as the content of the Dirty Dozen scale.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1605/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Behavioral Science, University West', u'Department of Cognitive Neuroscience, University of Sk\xf6vde', u'Network for Empowerment and Well-Being, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Cognitive Neuroscience and Philosophy, University of Sk\xf6vde', u'Blekinge Center of Competence, Blekinge County Council', u'Centre for Ethics, Law, and Mental Health (CELAM), University of Gothenburg']]
[u'The linkage of human circadian rhythms and hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) through network analysis', ['Sakshi Singh', 'Giovanni Colonna', 'Gennaro Ciliberto', 'Susan Costantini'], u'2015-12-20', u'Human circadian rhythms connect internal biological clock and external environmental through earth\u2019s day and night alternating. The human circadian clocks, present in each organs, are controlled by a main pace-maker situated in SCN (suprachiasmatic nuclei) of hypothalamus which is synchronized to the daily photoperiod. Clock disturbances are involved in many diseases like diabetes, obesity, depression, bipolar disease, and many types of cancers like breast cancer, colon cancer as well as hepatocellular carcinoma which is the third most life claiming cancer around the world. In this work the protein- protein interaction networks were analyzed using Cytoscape software. The human circadian network consists of 2151 nodes and 75821 interactions making it a huge network. It is very centralized with the value of 0.235. The density of the network is 0.033 and heterogeneity of 1.012. The characteristic path length is 2.373 while the average number of neighbors is equal to 70.5. Recently we performed a network analysis on gene expression data obtained in our group from HepG2 cells, a liver cancer cell line that lacks the viral infection, identifying 26 HUB genes [1]. Among these genes, 20 of them resulted present in the human circadian rhythm network. All these 20 genes had high degree values in the circadian network, ranging from 287 to 77 indicating that they control a large number of functional interactions and the information flow through the circadian network. However, by merging the network of genes involved in human circadian rhythms as well HepG2, we found that 83 hub nodes are common. This establishes strong relationships between liver cancer and circadian rhythms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1604/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Dipartimento di Biochimica, Biofisica e Patologia generale, Seconda Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Napoli', u'Servizio di Informatica Medica, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria, Seconda Universit\xe0 di Napoli', u'Istituto Nazionale Tumori \u201cFondazione G. Pascale\u201d - IRCCS', u'CROM, Istituto Nazionale Tumori \u201cFondazione G. Pascale\u201d - IRCCS']]
[u'Comparing the fluctuations of the intrinsically disordered C-terminal domain of human SELK free in water and in lipid membrane', ['Andrea Polo', 'Stefano Guariniello', 'Giovanni Colonna', 'Gennaro Ciliberto', 'Susan Costantini'], u'2015-12-20', u'SELK is a single-pass trans-membrane protein that resides in the endoplasmic reticulum membrane (ER) with a C-terminal domain exposed to the cytoplasm that is known to interact with different components of the endoplasmic reticulum associated to the protein degradation (ERAD) pathway. This protein is resulted to be up-expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma and in other cancers, therefore there is a need to analyze its structure-function relationships. In this work we performed a detailed analysis of the C-terminal domain sequence of SELK, modeled its three-dimensional structure and analyzed its conformational changes by Molecular Dynamics simulations. Our analysis showed that the C-terminal domain of SELK is a weak polyelectrolyte and specifically, a polycation, which has the characteristic molecular signature of natively disordered segments. Since the search by BLAST has not evidenced possible templates with an acceptable sequence identity percentage with the C-terminal sequence of SELK, its three-dimensional structure was modeled by ab initio modeling. The best model is characterized by one short helix and the most part of residues with no regular secondary structure elements. This model was subjected to MD simulation at neutral pH in water to assess the stability of the modelled structural organization free in solution. To deepen the structural analysis of the C terminal domain, we have also studied the organization of the whole protein inserted into the membrane by a procedure of comparative modeling between fold recognition and folding ab initio. Then, the complete structure of SELK was subjected to MD simulations in the lipid bilayer and a water box. Analyzing the MD trajectories, we found that the C-terminal domain of SELK is still highly mobile during the simulation in water-lipid bilayer by showing a decrease of the structural compactness, a lesser number of H-bonds, as well as a higher value of the total void volume and of the total solvent accessible area compared to the simulation in only water system. However, in both the simulations this region is stabilized mainly by a marked number of H-bonds, and pi-cation and IAC interactions, which suggest a globule organization very different from the classic globular one. Furthermore, water-protein interaction data suggest, as for other IDPs, that the hydration water tends to cluster around the protein facilitating its organization to globule.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1603/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology', 'Oncology'], [u'Servizio di Informatica Medica, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria,, Seconda Universit\xe0 di Napoli', u'Dipartimento di Biochimica, Biofisica e Patologia generale, Seconda Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Napoli', u'Istituto Nazionale Tumori \u201cFondazione G. Pascale\u201d - IRCCS', u'CROM, Istituto Nazionale Tumori \u201cFondazione G. Pascale\u201d - IRCCS']]
[u'An approach to cognitive evaluation using games on TV', ['Carlos Rivas Costa', 'Manuel Jose Fernandez Iglesias', 'Luis Eulogio Anido Rifon', 'Miguel Gomez Carballa', 'Sonia Valladares Rodriguez'], u'2015-12-19', u'Introduction: The recent advances in consumer electronics paved the way for new approaches to neurophysiological evaluation at home. More specifically, the computing capabilities of state-of-the-art television sets and media centres facilitate the introduction of computer-assisted evaluation at home. This approach helps to overcome the drawbacks of traditional pen-and-paper evaluations administered in clinical facilities, as they can be performed in a more comfortable environment, the subject\u2019s home, and they are more flexible to elaborate complex environments for the evaluation of neuropsychological constructs that are difficult to evaluate through traditional testing. The objective of this work was to develop a collection of games to be played on the TV to obtain some initial evidence about the convenience of this approach for the cognitive evaluation of senior adults.\nMaterials and methods: We developed a collection of games to be deployed on a smart TV environment. These games were tried by a group of senior adults at their homes. Perception surveys were performed to study their usability and acceptability as a means for cognitive evaluation.\nResults: More than 90% perceive cognitive games on TV as easy or very easy to interact with, and this result correlates with the number of participants perceiving them as usable or very usable.\nLimitations: Although participating users were carefully selected to obtain a representative sample of the Galician population. A larger and more diverse user sample may be needed to obtain significant results for a wider population profile.\nConclusion: The study confirmed the usability and acceptance of games as a means of cognitive evaluation. Nevertheless, more research is needed in order to implement serious games in a way that they are widely accepted by the medical community as a valid, reliable way to perform cognitive evaluation at home.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1602/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Ingenier\xeda Telem\xe1tica, University of Vigo']]
[u'Transcriptome analysis of Solanum lycopersicum roots provides novel insights into the plant response to a beneficial fungus', ['Maria Salzano', 'Monica De Palma', "Nunzio D'Agostino", 'Matteo Lorito', 'Michelina Ruocco', 'Marina Tucci'], u'2015-12-19', u'The globally pressing need for increasing agriculture yield while reducing environmental impact has promoted the utilization of sustainable plant protection strategies based on natural biocontrol agents, among which, rhizosphere-competent Plant-Growth-Promoting Fungi (PGPF) have inspired great interest. In this scenario, beneficial strains of Trichoderma have proved to be very effective for crop protection against pathogens. Therefore, \u201comic\u201d data of the plant response to Trichoderma can be effectively exploited in sustainable agriculture and could also be a useful model of the plant-beneficial microorganism interaction through \u201ctranslational research\u201d. Our work investigated the transcriptional response of tomato roots (Solanum lycopersicum) to Trichoderma harzianum strain T22 at early stages of the interaction (24, 48 and 72 h), using a Next Generation Sequencing approach (RNA-seq). This analysis revealed an intense remodelling of the plant transcriptome already after 24 h, involving more than 75% of the detected Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs), while smaller effects on gene expression were observed at 48 and 72 h. Enrichment analysis of the 24 h DEGs based on Gene Ontology (GO) showed involvement of \u201cdefence response\u201d and \u201ccell wall organization\u201d activities as well as of macromolecules \u201cmetabolism\u201d, \u201ctransport\u201d and \u201clocalization\u201d. Data inspection via the MapMan tool assigned 151 DEGs to bin 27 (\u201cRNA\u201d-related), suggesting the activation of the transcriptional machinery in tomato roots responding to the PGPF. Moreover, MapMan annotation highlighted a considerable enrichment of bin 35 (i.e. \u201cnot assigned\u201d) over the three time points, mostly due to the large presence (155) of proteins with unknown functions. Along with plant transcripts, RNA-sequencing of roots also identified 448 Trichoderma genes, which were searched for differential expression over the time course. GO enrichment analysis of the differentially expressed genes revealed that, at 24-48 h, \u2018macromolecules metabolic processes\u2019 were affected; on the other hand, \u201cresponse to stimulus\u201d\u2013related, as well as cellular processes (\u201ccommunication\u201d, \u201camino acid metabolism\u201d) and their regulation, were involved at 48-72 h. Taken together, our data were used to develop a model of the early tomato root response (within 72 h) to stimulation by the beneficial fungus T. harzianum.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1601/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'CNR\u2013Istituto di Bioscienze e BioRisorse', u"Consiglio per la ricerca in agricoltura e l'analisi dell'economia agraria\u2013Centro di ricerca per l'orticoltura (CREA\u2013ORT)", u'Dipartimento di Agraria, Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Napoli Federico II', u'CNR\u2013Istituto per la Protezione Sostenibile delle Piante']]
[u'MonoPhy: A simple R package to find and visualize monophyly issues', ['Orlando Schwery', "Brian C O'Meara"], u'2015-12-19', u'Background. The monophyly of taxa is an important attribute of a phylogenetic tree, as a lack of it may hint at shortcomings of either the tree or the current taxonomy and can misguide subsequent analyses. While monophyly is conceptually simple, it is manually tedious and time consuming to assess on modern phylogenies of hundreds to thousands of species. Results. The R package MonoPhy allows assessment and exploration of monophyly of taxa in a phylogeny. It can assess the monophyly of genera using the phylogeny only, and with an additional input file, any other desired higher taxa or unranked groups can be checked as well. Conclusion. Summary tables, easily subsettable results and several visualization options allow quick and convenient exploration of monophyly issues, thus making MonoPhy a valuable tool for any researcher working with phylogenies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1600/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee']]
[u'Strategies and difficulties in assembling highly recombinogenic plant organelle genomes: a case study', ['Concita Cantarella', 'Rachele Tamburino', 'Nunzia Scotti', 'Teodoro Cardi', "Nunzio D'Agostino"], u'2015-12-19', u'Mitochondrial genomes in plants are larger and more complex than in other eukaryotes due to their recombinogenic nature as widely demonstrated. The mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is usually represented as a single circular map, the so-called master molecule. This molecule includes repeated sequences, some of which are able to recombine, generating sub-genomic molecules in various amounts, depending on the balance between their recombination and replication rates. Recent advances in DNA sequencing technology gave a huge boost to plant mitochondrial genome projects. Conventional approaches to mitochondrial genome sequencing involve extraction and enrichment of mitochondrial DNA, cloning, and sequencing. Large repeats and the dynamic mitochondrial genome organization complicate de novo sequence assembly from short reads. The PacBio RS long-read sequencing platform offers the promise of increased read length and unbiased genome coverage and thus the potential to produce genome sequence data of a finished quality (fewer gaps and longer contigs). However, recently published articles revealed that PacBio sequencing is still not sufficient to address mtDNA assembly-related issues. Here we present a preliminary hybrid assembly of a potato mtDNA based on both PacBio and Illumina reads and debate the strategies and obstacles in assembling genomes containing repeated sequences that are recombinationally active and serve as a constant source of rearrangements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1599/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u"Centro di ricerca per l'orticoltura (CREA-ORT), Consiglio per la ricerca in agricoltura e l' analisi dell' economia agraria", u'Istituto di Bioscienze e BioRisorse (CNR-IBBR), Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche']]
[u'New protoescigenin derivative for the treatment of Parkes Weber syndrome', ['Oliwia Zegrocka-Stendel', 'Krzysztof Bojakowski', 'Malgorzata  Dutkiewicz', 'Iwona Grabowska', 'Gabriela Janusz', 'Magdalena Kowalewska', 'Katarzyna Koziak', 'Mariusz Gruza', 'Kamil Jatczak', 'Katarzyna Filip', 'Piotr Cmoch', 'Marta  Laszcz', 'Grzegorz Grynkiewicz'], u'2015-12-19', u'The Parkes Weber syndrome (PWS), first described in 1907, is characterized by triad of arteriovenous fistulas (AVF), varicose veins and bone and soft tissue hypertrophy leading to limb enlargement. The symptoms of PWS are congenital and present at birth. Vascular anomalies usually affect a limb, most commonly a leg, and less often a trunk. Capillary malformations, forming geographic patterns, are typically located on lateral side of the limb, buttocks or trunk. The appearance of varicose veins and dilated superficial veins in older age is triggered by arteriovenous shunt, venous hypertension and insufficiency of the deep venous system. The enlargement of a limb is present at birth, and the axial overgrowth can enlarge in postnatal period. Cases of shortened lower extremity and pelvis malformations have also been described. Arteriovenous leak may also lead to cardiac system failure or to limb ischemia. Not surprisingly, PWS, similarly to other vascular malformations, significantly reduces the quality of life of the affected patients.\nThe treatment of patients with PWS is mainly symptomatic. Compression therapy is used to reduce symptoms of chronic venous insufficiency and lymphatic edema. In selected cases invasive procedures are performed. Surgical treatment is difficult and may require several intravascular proce-dures, such as embolization, sclerotherapy or classic open operations involving arteriovenous fistula ligation. In severe cases of ischemic extremities amputation is the only therapy. Therefore, there is an ever-existing need to develop a safe and effective pharmacological therapy for PWS patients.\nFor the purpose of the study we have established the first animal model reproducing complex manifestations of PWS and applicable for research on etiology, treatment and prevention of the disease. The model mimics major clinical features characteristic for the human PWS: venous hypertension and dilatation, varicose veins formation, and the limb hypertrophy.\nCellular biology tools were applied to examine protective effect of ca. 30 new semi-synthetic compounds derived from the main aglycone of escin saponins, on the vascular endothelium under inflammatory conditions. The in vitro tests evaluated i.a. cell proliferation, migration, endothelial monolayer permeability, and the effect on NF\u03baB signal transduction. One paricular molecule (1), obtained in 5 steps as illustrated on the Scheme below, showing promising biological characteristics and favorable physicochemical properties has been selected for in vivo studies. The obtained results confirmed valuable pharmacological properties of the tested compound as all the animals treated with the selected compound showed signifi-cantly reduced symptoms of PWS as compared to untreated control. Furthermore, we believe that the molecule should be considered as a promising candidate for the prevention and treatment of other, more common vascular disorders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1598/', ['Cell Biology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Medical University of Warsaw', u'Faculty of Biology, Department of Cytology, University of Warsaw', u'Maria Sklodowska-Curie Memorial Cancer Center and Institute of Oncology', u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'Realities of rarity: climatically and ecologically restricted, critically endangered Kandian Torrent Toads (Adenomus kandianus) breed en masse', ['Madhava Meegaskumbura', 'Nayana Wijayathilaka', 'Nirodha Abayalath', 'Gayani Senevirathne'], u'2015-12-19', u'Endemic to Sri Lanka, genus Adenomus contains two torrent-associated toad species whose ecology and natural history in the wild is virtually unknown. Adenomus kelaartii is relatively common, with a wide geographic distribution. Its sister species, A. kandianus, however, is restricted to two isolated populations in fast-disappearing montane and sub-montane forests. Formally declared extinct after not being recorded for over a century, following several years of surveying, a few A. kandianus were found in 2012 and referred to as "the world\'s rarest toad." However, tadpoles of A. kandianus bearing unique ventral suckers were soon discovered, but the rarity of the adult and the profusion of tadpoles were never explained. Here, using ecological methods, niche modeling and DNA-barcoding, we aim to understand the ecology, natural history and distribution of this rare toad. Following a two-year study of occurrence, habits and habitat associations of adults and larvae, we show this to be a secretive species with a patchy distribution. During non-mating periods female toads (N = 23) were found in primary forests habitat up to 650 m away from the breeding streams, and predominantly males in the riparian zone (12 males, 2 females). Following heavy rain they form large (N = 388) but patchy mating congregations in torrential streams (six sites; range 0\u221295 mating pairs; mean = 25, SD = 38.16, CV = 152%). Amplexed pairs swim synchronously, enabling them to traverse fast currents. Egg-laying sites remain unknown, but ability to dive, vocalize underwater, and characteristics of the eggs, suggests that they lay eggs in dark recesses of the stream. Quadrat sampling of tadpoles show microhabitat partitioning (in depth, flow-rate and substrate conditions) within the stream: the greatest diversity of larval developmental stages (25-42) in slow-flowing (depth, 0.75\u22121.5 m) rocky areas; more robust stages (31\u221239) bearing sucker discs utilise rocky-rapids (depth, 0.25\u22120.75 m); metamorphic stages (43-45) use stream margins (depth, <0.25 m); slow flowing silt covered areas of the stream were unoccupied, irrespective of the depth. DNA barcoding of the 16S rRNA gene fragment from the two known localities confirms the identity of the Pedro population also as A. kandianus. The uncorrected pairwise genetic distance of 0.1\u22120.7% suggests historical gene flow between the two populations. Distribution modeling (using MaxEnt), with forest-cover layers added, predicts a very small remaining area of suitable habitats (an area of occupancy of 16 km2 and an extent of occurrence of 128 km2) isolated by habitats that are not conducive to these toads. While the healthy population recorded at one site gives hope for the survival of the species, long-term conservation of this climatically and ecologically restricted species hinges largely on the preservation of cloud and riparian forests and the unpolluted high-flow torrents.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1575/', ['Biodiversity', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Molecular Biology & Biotechnology, University of Peradeniya', u'Postgraduate Institute of Science, University of Peradeniya', u'Department of Animal Science, University of Peradeniya']]
[u'Multi-token code suggestions using statistical language models', ['Eddie A Santos', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2015-12-19', u'We present an application of the naturalness of software to provide multi-token code suggestions in GitHub\u2019s Atom text editor. We extended the results of a simple n-gram prediction model using the "mean surprise" metric\u2014the arithmetic mean of the surprisal of several successive single-token predictions. After an error-fraught evaluation, there is not enough evidence to conclude that Gamboge significantly improves programmer productivity. We conclude by discussing several directions for future research in code suggestion and more using naturalness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1597/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Natural Language and Speech', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Reevaluation of the largest published morphological data matrix for phylogenetic analysis of Paleozoic limbed vertebrates', ['David Marjanovic', 'Michel Laurin'], u'2015-12-18', u'The largest data matrix for phylogeny of early limbed vertebrates (Ruta M, Coates MI. 2007. J. Syst. Palaeont. 5:69\u2013122) has supported controversial hypotheses; e.g., it has recovered Seymouriamorpha, Diadectomorpha and (in some trees) Caudata as paraphyletic and found the \u201ctemnospondyl hypothesis\u201d on the origin of Lissamphibia (TH) to be one step more parsimonious than the \u201clepospondyl hypothesis\u201d (LH). Scrutiny of the matrix reveals thousands of suboptimal scores (many clearly due to typographic and similar errors) as well as logically linked (redundant) characters, characters with only one described state, and even cases where taxa were scored after presumed relatives. Moreover, all characters \u2013 even obviously continuous ones \u2013 were unordered, effects of ontogeny were not sufficiently taken into account, and the authors mostly excluded data published after 2001, even their own. Our revised version \u2013 we document and justify all changes \u2013 yields much longer trees with a different topology, e.g. monophyletic Caudata, Diadectomorpha and (sometimes) Seymouriamorpha, Ichthyostega more rootward than Acanthostega, Anthracosauria more rootward than Temnospondyli, and the LH, which is 10 steps more parsimonious than the TH and 15 more than the \u201cpolyphyly hypothesis\u201d (PH). Bootstrap values, though, are low, and few of the topologies are statistically distinguishable. For another set of analyses, we added 48 OTUs to the original 102. This destabilizes parts of the tree, e.g. the relationships of Anthracosauria and Temnospondyli. However, many of the added taxa have a fully resolved position or nearly so; this concerns the well-known Chroniosaurus (sister to a clade containing Solenodonsaurus, Seymouriamorpha, Diadectomorpha, Amniota and Amphibia), but also isolated lower-jaw material from the Devonian and Carboniferous. Despite the addition of Gerobatrachus, Micropholis and Tungussogyrinus and the extremely peramorphic salamander Chelotriton, the difference between LH and TH only shrinks to 9 steps, that between LH and PH to 13 steps. The \u201clepospondyl\u201d Brachydectes is neither found as sister to Lissamphibia nor in the \u201cmicrosaur\u201d grade. Bootstrap values plummet, though, and all three hypotheses become statistically indistinguishable at p = 0.05. We then duplicated all analyses after coding all losses of bones as irreversible. Anthracosauria is then consistently placed more rootward than Temnospondyli; given the original taxon sample, the LH is 12 steps shorter than the \u201ctemnospondyl hypothesis\u201d and 17 steps shorter than the PH, while the expanded taxon sample makes the LH 10 steps shorter than the TH and only 12 steps shorter than the PH. More robust results could likely be obtained by adding the many characters used in other analyses or discussed in the literature. We discuss phylogeny, approaches to coding, and certain character complexes, in particular the supposed middle ear of temnospondyls.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1596/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Science Programme "Evolution and Geoprocesses", Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde, Leibniz Institute for Evolutionary and Biodiversity Research, Humboldt-Universit\xe4t zu Berlin', u"Centre de Recherches sur la Pal\xe9obiologie et les Pal\xe9oenvironnements, CR2P, Centre national de la Recherche scientifique, Mus\xe9um national d'Histoire naturelle, Universit\xe9 Pierre et Marie Curie  (Paris VI)"]]
[u'Differential response to stress in Ostrea lurida (Carpenter 1864) as measured by gene expression', ['J. Emerson Heare', 'Samuel J. White', 'Steven B. Roberts'], u'2015-12-18', u'Olympia oysters are the only native oyster to the west coast of North America. The population within Puget Sound, WA has been decreasing significantly since the early 1900\u2019s. Current restoration efforts are focused on supplementing local populations with hatchery bred oysters. A recent study by Heare et al. (2015) has shown that there appears to be differences in stress response in oysters from different locations in Puget Sound. However, nothing is known about the underlying mechanisms associated with these observed differences. In this study, expression of genes associated with growth, immune function, and gene regulatory activity in oysters from Oyster Bay, Dabob Bay, and Fidalgo Bay were characterized following temperature and mechanical stress. We found that heat stress and mechanical stress significantly changed expression in molecular regulatory activity and immune response, respectively. We also found that oysters from Oyster Bay had the most dramatic response to stress at the gene expression level. These data provide important baseline information on the physiological response of Ostrea lurida to stress and provide clues to underlying performance differences in the three populations examined.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1595/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Genetics'], [u'School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, University of Washington']]
[u'The sea urchin Diadema antillarum \u2013 keystone herbivore or redundant species?', ['Lindsey L. Precht', 'William F. Precht'], u'2015-12-17', u'Two main hypotheses have been developed for describing the role and importance of the sea urchin Diadema antillarum on reefs of the Caribbean region in both space and time. The first and most crucial is whether D. antillarum was the most important \u201ckeystone\u201d grazer on Caribbean reefs? The alternate to this hypothesis is that D. antillarum was merely a redundant species, playing a secondary role to herbivorious fishes which only came into dominance after herbivorous fishes had been removed by man through exploitive fishing practices. To resolve this debate, we pose the question: \u201cWhat is the role of Diadema antillarum in altering the composition of the benthic community on Caribbean coral reefs in time and space?\u201d The interpretation presented herein implies that D. antillarum was and is the most important shallow-water herbivore on Caribbean coral reefs. This is contrary to a prevailing model but in substantial agreement with the historical importance of the species. If correct, the continued and future recovery of this sea urchin may be the key ingredient to facilitating coral reef recovery throughout the region. In addition, on coral reefs where the natural recovery of Diadema has been delayed or is absent (e.g. the Florida Reef Tract); measures to actively restore these urchins may be the most efficient and cost-effective tool for conserving and enhancing the ecological function of reefs. This debate also emphasizes the requirement for implementing ecologically-based, not ideologically-based management of natural systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1565/', ['Ecology'], [u'Williams Mystic, Williams College', u'Marine and Coastal Programs, Dial Cordy and Associates, Inc.']]
[u'BBCC2015 Tenth edition of \u201cBioinformatics and Computational Biology in Campania\u201d', ['Angelo Facchiano'], u'2015-12-17', u'BBCC represents the meeting point of researchers with a common interest for bioinformatics, in the Italian region Campania. I organize it yearly since 2006, so it reaches now the tenth edition. The birth of this meeting was the consideration of the high number of research institutes in this region, with many teams involved in bioinformatics studies, and many others in biomedical area, as well as in mathematics and informatics, so they may be interested to approach the bioinformatics community. At the end of 2006, I was involved with other colleagues in the organization of the meeting (April 2007, Naples) of the Bioinformatics Italian Society, BITS (www.bioinformatics.it). The Italian national community of bioinformatics has an annual meeting, since 2004 in the form of the society meeting, and also before the foundation of BITS. However, no specific event was regularly organized at regional level, as an opportunity for bioinformaticians in Campania to meet and discuss as an unique community. Therefore, I decided to organize a meeting of bioinformatics for the Campania region researchers, also for stimulating the local community in the view of the approaching annual meeting in Naples. In December 2006, the meeting registered the participation of about 100 researchers and students, an unexpected success and a strong motivation to repeat the meeting as an annual appointment. Since that first edition, the meeting has been held in the last months of the year, having every year about 100 participants. The formula of the meeting is very simple: a single-day event, with speakers on very different topics, open to the participation of colleagues from other regions and countries that introduced other ideas and suggestions for the community. This is the origin and ten years of life of the \u201cBioinformatica e Biologia Computazionale in Campania - BBCC\u201d meeting series. For the tenth annual edition of BBCC meeting, 27 abstracts have been proposed for oral presentations or posters. A Program Committee has been created to evaluate the level of the proposals, and a good average evaluation has been reached.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1593/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute of Food Science, National Research Council']]
[u'Further spreading of the non-indigenous bryozoan Celleporaria brunnea in the Mediterranean Sea: port to port morphological variations', ['Jasmine Ferrario', 'Agnese Marchini', 'Martina Maric', 'Dan Minchin', 'Anna Occhipinti-Ambrogi'], u'2015-12-17', u'The Pacific cheilostome bryozoan Celleporaria brunnea (Hincks, 1884), a non-indigenous species already known for the Mediterranean Sea, was recorded in 2013-2014 from nine Italian port localities (Genoa, Santa Margherita Ligure, La Spezia, Leghorn, Viareggio, Olbia, Porto Rotondo, Porto Torres and Castelsardo) in the North-western Mediterranean Sea; in 2014 it was also found for the first time in the Adriatic Sea, in the marina \u201cKornati\u201d, Biograd na Moru (Croatia). In Italy, specimens of C. brunnea were found in 44 out of 105 samples (48% from harbour sites ad 52% from marinas). These data confirm and update the distribution of C. brunnea in the Mediterranean Sea, and provide evidence that recreational boating is a vector responsible for the successful spread of this species. Previous literature data have shown the existence of differences in orifice and interzooidal avicularia length and width among different localities of the invaded range of C. brunnea. Therefore, measurements of orifice and avicularia were assessed for respectively 30 zooids and 8 to 30 interzooidal avicularia for both Italian and Croatian localities, and compared with literature data, in order to verify the existence of differences in the populations of C. brunnea that could reflect the geographic pattern of its invasion range. Our data show high variability of orifice measures among and within localities: zooids with broader than long orifice coexisted with others displaying longer than broad orifice, or similar values for both length and width. The morphological variation of C. brunnea in these localities, and above all the large variability of samples within single localities or even within colonies poses questions on the reliability of such morphometric characters for inter and intraspecific evaluations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1592/', ['Marine Biology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Pavia', u'Marine Science and Technology Center, Klaipeda University', u'Marine Organism Investigations']]
[u'The influence of mature oak stands and spruce plantations on soil-dwelling click beetles in lowland plantation forests', ['Tereza Loskotova', 'Jakub Horak'], u'2015-12-17', u'Most European forests have been converted into forest plantations that are managed for timber production. The main goal of this paper was to determine the difference between mature native sessile oak (Quercus petraea) stands and non-indigenous Norway spruce (Picea abies) plantations with respect to communities of Athous click beetles in approximately 6,500 ha of lowland plantation forest area in the Czech Republic. Athous subfuscus was the most abundant and widespread species, followed by A. zebei and A. haemorrhoidalis, while A. vittatus was considered rare. Spatial analysis of environmental variables inside studied patches showed that the species composition of Athous beetles best responded to a 20 m radius surrounding traps. Species\u2019 responses to the environment showed that A. vittatus and A. haemorrhoidalis preferred oak stands, while A. zebei and A. subfuscus were associated with spruce plantations. In addition, oak stands showed higher diversity of beetle communities. The studied species are important for their ecosystem services (e.g. predation on pests or bioturbation) and seems to tolerate certain degrees of human disturbances, which is beneficial especially for forest plantations managed for timber production.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1591/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Department of Forest Protection and Entomology, Czech University of Life Sciences Prague']]
[u'Architecture of the sperm whale forehead facilitates ramming combat', ['Olga Panagiotopoulou', 'Panagiotis Spyridis', 'Hyab Mehari Abraha', 'David R Carrier', 'Todd C Pataky'], u'2015-12-17', u'Herman Melville\u2019s novel Moby Dick was inspired by historical instances in which large sperm whales (Physeter macrocephalus L.) sank 19th century whaling ships by ramming them with their foreheads. The immense forehead of sperm whales is possibly the largest, and one of the strangest, anatomical structures in the animal kingdom. It contains two large oil-filled compartments, known as the \u201cspermaceti organ\u201d and \u201cjunk\u201d, that constitute up to one-quarter of body mass and extend one-third of the total length of the whale. Recognized as playing an important role in echolocation, previous studies have also attributed the complex structural configuration of the spermaceti organ and junk to acoustic sexual selection, acoustic prey debilitation, buoyancy control, and aggressive ramming. Of these additional suggested functions, ramming remains the most controversial, and the potential mechanical roles of the structural components of the spermaceti organ and junk in ramming remain untested. Here we explore the aggressive ramming hypothesis using a novel combination of structural engineering principles and probabilistic simulation to determine if the unique structure of the junk significantly reduces stress in the skull during quasi-static impact. Our analyses indicate that the connective tissue partitions within the junk reduce stress across the skull during impact; stress reduction is greatest in the anterior aspect of the skull; and removal of the connective tissue partitions increases stress concentrations on the tip of the skull, possibly making it prone to fracture. Although the unique structure of the junk certainly serves multiple functions, our results are consistent with the hypothesis that the structure also evolved to function as a massive battering ram during male-male competition.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1590/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Moving Morphology and Functional Mechanics Laboratory, School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland', u'Polytropos Ltd', u'Department of Biology, University of Utah', u'Institute for Fiber Engineering, Department of Bioengineering, Shinshu University']]
[u'Evidence of Ostrea lurida (Carpenter 1864) population structure in Puget Sound, WA', ['J. Emerson Heare', 'Brady Blake', 'Jonathan P. Davis', 'Brent Vadopalas', 'Steven B. Roberts'], u'2015-12-15', u'For long-term persistence of species, population structure is important. Traits that hold adaptive advantage such as reproductive timing and stress resilience may differ among locales. Knowledge and consideration of these traits should be integrated into conservation efforts. To test for adaptive differences between Olympia oyster populations a reciprocal transplant experiment was carried out monitoring survival, growth, and reproduction using three established populations of Ostrea lurida within Puget Sound, Washington. Performance differed for each population. Ostrea lurida from Dabob Bay had higher survival at all sites but lower reproductive activity and growth. Oysters from Oyster Bay demonstrated greater proportion of brooding females at a majority of sites with moderate growth and survival. Together these data suggest the existence of O. lurida population structure within Puget Sound and provide information on how broodstock should be selected for restoration purposes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/704/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'School of Aquatic and Fisheries Science, University of Washington', u'Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife, WDFW', u'Puget Sound Restoration Fund, PSRF', u'School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, University of Washington']]
[u'Recreational boating as a vector of spread of non-indigenous species around the Mediterranean Sea', ['Aylin Ulman', 'Agnese Marchini', 'Christos Arvanitidis', 'Anna Occhipinti'], u'2015-12-15', u'This study seeks to identify the hotspots for the secondary spread of non-indigenous species (NIS) resulting for recreational boating travel patterns across the Mediterranean Sea, and investigate the potential for internal spread within each study region. Three Mediterranean regions will be sampled for: 1) NIS richness in the marinas and NIS richness and abundance from recreational vessels; 2) biopollution level of transient recreational boats; 3) geographic range of NIS within each region; 4) hull cleaning and travel history of recreational boats. The results will then be tested with other abiotic factors to determine which factors are significant in contributing to making some marinas more high-risk for the presence and transfer of alien species. Finally, a spatial connectivity network analysis will be presented of the 30 sampled marinas by combining a risk-level for each marina along with recreational boating travel patterns. Marina selection is based on the busiest marinas for recreational boaters in each region in combination with securing permission and feasibility. Samples for Amathia verticillatum will be collected from each region and genetically tested to determine if they share the same initial or secondary source of invasion.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1588/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Genetics'], [u'Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Pavia', u'Institute of Marine Biology and Genetics, Hellenic Centre for Marine Research']]
[u'Reducing bias in population and landscape genetic inferences: The effects of sampling related individuals and multiple life stages', ['William Peterman', 'Emily R Brocato', 'Raymond D Semlitsch', 'Lori S Eggert'], u'2015-12-15', u'In population or landscape genetics studies, an unbiased sampling scheme is essential for generating accurate results, but logistics may lead to deviations from the sample design. Such deviations may come in the form of sampling multiple life stages. Presently, it is largely unknown what effect sampling different life stages can have on population or landscape genetic inference, or how mixing life stages can affect the parameters being measured. In this study, we sampled embryos, larvae, and adult Ambystoma maculatum from five ponds in Missouri, and analyzed them at 15 microsatellite loci. We calculated allelic richness, heterozygosity and effective population sizes for each life stage at each pond and tested for genetic differentiation (FST and DC) and isolation-by-distance (IBD) among ponds. We tested for differences in each of these measures between life stages, and in a pooled population of all life stages. All calculations were done with and without sibling pairs to assess the effect of sibling removal. No statistically significant differences were found among ponds or life stages for any of the population genetic measures, but patterns of IBD differed among life stages. There was significant IBD when using adult samples, but tests using embryos, larvae, or a combination of the three life stages were not significant. Further, we found that increasing the ratio of larval or embryo samples in the analysis of genetic distance weakened the IBD relationship, and when using DC, the IBD was no longer significant when larvae and embryos exceeded 60% of the population sample. Our findings suggest that it may be possible to mix life stages to reach target sample size quotas, but researchers should nonetheless proceed with caution depending upon the goals and objectives of the study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1586/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics'], [u'School of Environment and Natural Resources, The Ohio State University', u'Division of Biological Sciences, University of Missouri - Columbia']]
[u'Genome-wide analyses reveal clustering in Cannabis cultivars: the ancient domestication trilogy of a panacea', ['Philippe Henry'], u'2015-12-14', u"In the present research, I used an open access data set (Medicinal Genomics) consisting of nearly 200'000 genome-wide single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) typed in 28 cannabis accessions to shed light on the plant's underlying genetic structure. Genome-wide loadings were used to sequentially cull less informative markers. The process involved reducing the number of SNPs to 100K, 10K, 1K, 100 until I identified a set of 42 highly informative SNPs that I present here. The two first principal components, encompass over 3/4 of the genetic variation present in the dataset (PCA1 = 48.6%, PCA2= 26.3%). This set of diagnostic SNPs is then used to identify clusters into which cannabis accession segregate. I identified three clear and consistent clusters; reflective of the ancient domestication trilogy of the genus Cannabis.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1553/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Science and Management, University of Northern British Columbia']]
[u'Kinect controlled dinosaur simulations for education and public outreach', ['William I Sellers', 'Stuart B Pond'], u'2015-12-14', u"Dinosaurs are a source of enormous public interest and as such are useful for fostering greater interest in basic science and technology. With the increasing popularity of dinosaur films that claim to portray realistic dinosaur behaviour, one question that is regularly posed for palaeontologists to answer is how we know that our reconstructions are accurate. Dinosaur locomotion is no exception to this line of questioning and one technique for estimating how dinosaurs may have moved is multibody dynamic simulation (MBDA) of high biofidelity musculoskeletal computer models. Such simulations uses Newton's Law's of Motion to calculate how the different parts of the animals body would have moved depending on the internal forces generated by the muscles and the external forces due to gravity and physical contact with the ground. In this project we designed a system that allowed the user to directly control the muscles forces generated using a Kinect for Xbox One sensor attached to a PC using the Kinect Adaptor for Windows. The Kinect output is used to drive the muscles using customised software and models (Tyrannosaurus, Triceratops, Brachiosaurus, Edmontonia, Edmontosaurus, Gorgosaurus) based on our standard GaitSym MBDA system. The initial system was trialled over 7 days at the 2015 Cheltenham Science Festival which showed that the bipedal models were relatively easy to control using human body movements and provided a good vehicle to explain how the physics and physiology behind dinsoaur locomotor reconstruction. The quadrupedal models in their current form are much more difficult to control and further work is needed in this area. The 3D models and software for this project are freely available to download (http://www.animalsimulation.org or DOI: 10.6084/m9.figshare.2008977) and it is hoped that they will find further uses in areas such as 3D printing for anatomical education and virtual world simulations.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1584/', ['Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester', u'Ocean & Earth Science, The National Oceanography Centre of Southampton, University of Southampton']]
[u'A risk assessment approach to ecological decision-making', ['Gina K Himes Boor', 'Paul Wade'], u'2015-12-12', u'The conservation and management of wild populations and ecosystems almost always involves making decisions in the face of uncertainty and risk. The application of science to the ecological decision-making process was something that the late Professor Daniel Goodman thought deeply about. In this paper we outline the three main principles that Dr. Goodman espoused for good practice when conducting analyses for ecological decision-making: 1) the results should be conditioned on all relevant data and information, 2) there must be a full characterization of all uncertainty, and it should be fully propagated into the result, and 3) doing so in the correct way will result in the calculation of an accurate probability distribution (conditioned on our understanding of the state of nature) that should be used directly for ecological decision-making. Dr. Goodman believed that in the context of threatened and endangered species management Population Viability Analysis (PVA), Bayesian statistics, and structured decision-making are the most logical tools to achieve the three principles. To illustrate the application of the principles and tools in a real management setting, we discuss a Bayesian PVA that Dr. Goodman produced for the endangered Steller sea lion. We conclude by discussing the practical and philosophical impediments that may limit the full realization of the three principles and we offer some suggested solutions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1583/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Ecology Department, Montana State University', u'National Marine Mammal Lab, Alaska Fisheries Science Center, NOAA Fisheries']]
[u'MetaR: simple, high-level languages for data analysis with the R ecosystem', ['Fabien Campagne', 'William ER Digan', 'Manuele Simi'], u'2015-12-12', u'Data analysis tools have become essential to the study of biology. Tools available today were constructed with layers of technology developed over decades. Here, we explain how some of the principles used to develop this technology are sub-optimal for the construction of data analysis tools for biologists. In contrast, we applied language workbench technology (LWT) to create a data analysis language, called MetaR, tailored for biologists with no programming experience, as well as expert bioinformaticians and statisticians. A key novelty of this approach is its ability to blend user interface with scripting in such a way that beginners and experts alike can analyze data productively in the same analysis platform. While presenting MetaR, we explain how a judicious use of LWT eliminates problems that have historically contributed to data analysis bottlenecks. These results show that language design with LWT can be a compelling approach for developing intelligent data analysis tools.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1465/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medical College', u'The HRH Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdulaziz Alsaud Institute for Computational Biomedicine, Weill Cornell Medical College']]
[u'What is the effect of ammonium sulfate on the heart rate of Daphnia magnia?', ['Qin Xiang Ng'], u'2015-12-11', u'Ammonium sulfate [(NH4)2SO4] is one of the most widely used nitrogen-based fertilizer in agriculture, and has been produced for over 150 years. However, limited research has been done to investigate the eco-toxic effects of ammonium sulfate, commonly present in surface runoff. This study therefore aimed to investigate the effects of varying ammonium sulfate concentrations on the normal physiology of Daphnia magna through a modified acute toxicity testing. Concentrations of ammonium sulfate solutions at 0M, 0.05M, 0.10M, 0.15M, 0.20M, 0.25M, and 0.30M were prepared and tested on 10 D. magna for each concentration of ammonium sulfate solution. The bioassay test was done by observing the effects of different concentrations of ammonium sulfate solution on the heart rate of D. magna. The percentage increase in average heart rate of D. magna after exposure to the respective concentrations of ammonium sulfate solution were calculated and a relationship between varying concentrations of ammonium sulfate concentration and the heart rate of D. magna was illustrated by plotting a graph using the respective data points obtained. Results indicated that increasing concentrations of ammonium sulfate solution resulted in an increase in the heart rate of D. magna per minute, up till 0.20M concentration. Increasing concentrations of ammonium sulfate solution beyond 0.20M resulted in a decrease in the heart rate of D. magna per minute. It was also discovered that specifically, the ammonium ions present when ammonium sulfate dissociates in water, is responsibility for toxicity, and not the sulfate ions. It is reasonable to conclude that ammonium sulfate poses significant eco-toxic effects as D. magna is a common primary consumer in many freshwater aquatic ecosystems, any change in its population quality or quantity can cause irreparable effects to the populations of other aquatic organisms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1581/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore']]
[u'To investigate the antimicrobial effects of extracted polyphenols from green tea (Camellia sinensis) and banana (Musa sp.) leaves', ['Qin Xiang Ng'], u'2015-12-10', u'In recent years, there is an emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacterial strains due to the indiscriminate use of antibiotics, commonly prescribed to treat infectious diseases. The increasing occurrence of antibiotic resistance has undoubtedly made bacterial infections a greater health risk and threat than before. In this project, the use of natural polyphenolic compounds, extracted from green tea (Camellia sinensis) and banana (Musa sp.) leaves, as a novel antimicrobial chemotherapeutic agent was investigated. This study examined their bactericidal effects on Escherichia coli and Micrococcus luteus, and also evaluated the potential synergistic ability of these polyphenol-rich extracts when used alongside the beta-lactam antibiotic ampicillin. For the same dry mass of plant material used (3g), the prepared green tea extract had a higher total polyphenol concentration than that of banana leaves extract (495.1mg/L as compared to 221.6mg/L respectively). Subsequently, bacterial broth of 105 colony forming units/ml was mixed with varying concentrations of the different test compounds before plating 10\xb5l of the mixture and quantifying the compounds\u2019 bactericidal effect by doing a viable count after overnight incubation. The green tea extract showed the greatest bactericidal effect on E. coli and M. luteus as compared to the banana leaves extract and ampicillin. Against E. coli, this difference was confirmed to be significant (p<0.05) using one-way ANOVA and Tukey\u2019s post-hoc analysis. Furthermore, by applying ampicillin in close association with polyphenol-rich extracts of green tea or banana leaves, there was an enhanced bactericidal effect on the tested bacterial strains. This interaction was categorized as synergistic by the fractional bactericidal concentration index calculated (\u22640.5). Ultimately, the plant polyphenols studied in this research could provide a potential adjuvant to currently-produced antibiotics and help to reduce antibiotic application concentrations; as well as prolong the effective lifespan of antibiotics through its synergistic action.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1580/', ['Cell Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Plant Science', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Statistics'], [u'Yong Loo Lin School of Medicine, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Lowland tapir distribution and habitat loss in South America', ['Jose Luis Passos Cordeiro', 'Jose MV Fragoso', 'Danielle Crawshaw', 'Luiz Flamarion B Oliveira'], u'2015-12-10', u'The development of species distribution models (SDMs) can help conservation efforts by generating potential distributions and identifying areas of high environmental suitability for protection. Our study presents a rigorously derived distribution and habitat map for lowland tapir in South America. We also describe the potential habitat suitability of various geographical regions and habitat loss, inside and outside of protected areas network. Two different SDM approaches, MAXENT and ENFA, produced relative different Habitat Suitability Maps for the lowland tapir. While MAXENT was efficient at identifying areas as suitable or unsuitable, it was less efficient (when compared to the results by ENFA) at identifying the gradient of habitat suitability. MAXENT is a more multifaceted technique that establishes more complex relationships between dependent and independent variables. Our results demonstrate that for at least one species, the lowland tapir, the use of a simple consensual approach (average of ENFA and MAXENT models outputs) better reflected its current distribution patterns. The Brazilian ecoregions have the highest habitat loss for the tapir. Cerrado and Atlantic Forest account for nearly half (48.19%) of the total area lost. The Amazon region contains the largest area under protection, and the most extensive remaining habitat for the tapir, but also showed high levels of habitat loss outside protected areas, which increases the importance of support for proper management.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1579/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Fiocruz Mata Atl\xe2ntica, Funda\xe7\xe3o Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz)', u'Department of Biology, Stanford University', u'Museu Nacional, Departamento de Vertebrados, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'A robust hierarchical model of daily stream temperature using air-water temperature synchronization, autocorrelation, and time lags', ['Benjamin H Letcher', 'Daniel J Hocking', "Kyle O'Neill", 'Andrew R Whiteley', 'Keith H Nislow', "Matthew J O'Donnell"], u'2015-12-10', u'Water temperature is a primary driver of stream ecosystems and commonly forms the basis of stream classifications. Robust models of stream temperature are critical as the climate changes, but estimating daily stream temperature poses several important challenges. We developed a statistical model that accounts for many challenges that can make stream temperature estimation difficult. Our model identifies the yearly period when air and water temperature are synchronized, accommodates hysteresis, incorporates time lags, deals with missing data and autocorrelation and can include external drivers. In a small stream network, the model performed well (RMSE = 0.59 \xb0C), identified a clear warming trend (0.063 \xb0C \xb7 y-1) and a widening of the synchronized period (2.9 d \xb7 y-1). We also carefully evaluated how missing data influenced predictions. Missing data within a year had a small effect on performance (~ 0.05% average drop in RMSE with 10% fewer days with data). Missing all data for a year decreased performance (~ 0.6 \xb0C jump in RMSE), but this decrease was moderated when data were available from other streams in the network. Straightforward incorporation of external drivers (e.g. land cover, basin size) should allow this modeling framework to be readily applied across multiple sites and at multiple spatial scales.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1578/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Conte Anadromous Fish Research Center, USGS', u'Department of Environmental Conservation, University of Massachusetts', u'Northern Research Station, US Forest Service']]
[u'Density and distribution patterns of the endangered species Pinna nobilis within the harbour bay of Favignana (Egadi Islands MPA)', ["Riccardo D'agostaro", 'Stefano Donati', 'Renato Chemello'], u'2015-12-10', u'The fan shell P. nobilis (Linnaeus, 1758) is the largest marine bivalve in the Mediterranean Sea which acts as ecosystem engineer, offering an adequate substratum to several associated benthic species. P. nobilis is threatened by the reduction and loss of its natural habitat and by increased anthropogenic inputs into coastal waters. The knowledge on the population of this species are scarce, especially as concerns Sicily and its coasts. This study focused on the density of population, spatial distribution, level of burial and orientation of the population of P. nobilis in the harbour area of Favignana island (western coast of Sicily, Italy). The fan shell surveys were carried out by SCUBA diving using a 50m-transect line perpendicular to the coastline. For each P. nobilis censused, maximum (W) width, minimum width (w) and unburied length (UL) were measured; shell orientation (Or) was determined using an underwater compass and considering the magnitude of the angle formed by the vector and the magnetic north. The specimen status (dead or alive), the depth (by using the electronic depth meter of a diving computer) were recorded. In addition, the geographical coordinates were marked for each individual along the transect by means of a Global Positioning System (GPS). Total shell height (HT) was estimated using a formula considered suitable for the populations of this studied area. The density of P. nobilis was \xb111 ind. 100m2, the total height (HT) and the maximum width (W) of the shells was 33 cm and 13,6 cm respectively. In the aim of the "MPA of Egadi Islands" to confirm the need of a new management to protect the biodiversity of the harbour area, more conservation measures are necessary in order to improve the preservation of this endangered species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1552/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Earth and Marine Sciences, University of Palermo', u'Egadi Islands Marine Protected Area']]
[u'Diet of the critically endangered brown-headed spider monkey (Ateles fusciceps fusciceps) in the Ecuadorian Choc\xf3: Conflict between primates and loggers over fruiting tree species', ['Citlalli Morelos-Juarez', 'Andrea Tapia', 'Galo Conde', 'Mika Peck'], u'2015-12-09', u'Identifying key food resources for critically endangered species is vital in the design of effective conservation strategies, particularly if these resources are also targeted by anthropogenic activities such as logging. The province of Esmeraldas in NW Ecuador is heavily dependent on commercial logging. It also maintains the only healthy population of the critically endangered brown-headed spider monkey (Ateles fusciceps fusciceps). The unprotected forest remnant of Tesoro Escondido, in the buffer zone of the Cotacachi Cayapas Ecological Reserve, is home to an estimated 130 individuals of a global population of approximately 250. There is an urgent need for information to develop effective conservation action plans for the species, in particular the impact of logging activity on key feeding resources. We characterised the floristic composition of the habitat of  A. f. fusciceps  and estimated the availability of fruit resources for the annual cycle of 2012-2013 in sixteen 0.1 hectare vegetation plots. We determined feeding preferences for A. f. fusciceps using behavioural observations applying the Chesson \u03b5 index to identify key feeding tree species. We reviewed regional logging permits to identify species targeted for extraction by the timber industry and calculated extraction volumes in primary forest for key feeding tree species to identify potential conflict between logging and primate diet. We identified 65 fruiting tree species from 34 families that formed the diet of A. f. fusciceps. The Chesson \u03b5 index identified twelve species as preferred species with further phenological observations identifying seven species as staple foods and two palms as potential fall back fruits. Additionally, high densities of the lipid rich fruits of Brosimum utile make this an important resource for this primate throughout the year. Of 65 feeding tree species identified for A. f. fusciceps, 35 species are also targeted as sources of timber. Five key feeding species would be depleted under current sustainable management extraction protocols while two other species would be significantly impacted in terms of local abundance.Given the critically endangered status of  A. f. fusciceps, remaining primary forest in NW Ecuador requires urgent protection, including thorough revision of current logging protocols to ensure long term survival of the species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1574/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex', u'Department of Biology, Universidad San Francisco de Quito', u'Fundacion Cambugan']]
[u'Selection and sex-biased dispersal: the influence of philopatry on adaptive variation', ['David S Portnoy', 'Jonathan B Puritz', 'Christopher M Hollenbeck', 'James Gelsleichter', 'Demian Chapman', 'John R Gold'], u'2015-12-09', u'Sex-biased dispersal is expected to homogenize nuclear genetic variation relative to variation in genetic material inherited through the philopatric sex. When site fidelity occurs across a heterogeneous environment, local selective regimes may alter this pattern. We assessed spatial patterns of variation in nuclear-encoded, single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and sequences of the mitochondrial control region in bonnethead sharks (Sphyrna tiburo) collected, a species thought to exhibit female philopatry, from summer habitat used for gestation. Geographic patterns of mtDNA haplotypes and putatively neutral SNPs confirmed female philopatry and male-mediated gene flow along the northeastern coast of the Gulf of Mexico. A total of 30 outlier SNP loci were identified; alleles at over half of these loci exhibited signatures of latitude-associated selection. Our results indicate that in species with sex-biased dispersal, philopatry can facilitate sorting of locally adaptive variation, with the dispersing sex facilitating movement of potentially adaptive variation among locations and environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1300/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Marine Genomics Laboratory, Department of Life Sciences, Harte Research Institute, Texas A&M University - Corpus Christi', u'University of North Florida', u'State University of New York at Stony Brook']]
[u'Why did the UV-A-induced photoluminescent blue-green glow in trilobite eyes and exoskeletons not cause problems for trilobites?', ['Brigitte Schoenemann', 'Euan N.K. Clarkson', 'Gabor Horvath'], u'2015-12-09', u'The calcitic lenses in the eyes of Palaeozoic trilobites are unique in the animal kingdom, although the use of calcite would have conveyed great advantages for vision in aquatic systems. Calcite lenses are transparent, and due to their high refractive index they would facilitate the focusing of light. In some respects, however, calcite lenses bear evident disadvantages. Birefringence would cause double images at different depths, but this is not a problem for trilobites since the difference in the paths of the ordinary and extraordinary rays is less than the diameter of the receptor cells. Another point, not discussed hitherto, is that calcite fluoresces when illuminated with UV-A. Here we show experimentally that calcite lenses fluoresce, and we discuss why fluorescence does not diminish the optical quality of these lenses and the image formed by them. In the environments in which the trilobites lived, UV-A would not have been a relevant factor, and thus fluorescence would not have disturbed or confused their visual system. We also argue that whatever the reason was that calcite was never again used successfully in the visual systems of aquatic arthropods, it was not fluorescence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1288/', ['Biophysics', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Animal Physiology and Seminar of Biology Education (Zoology), University of Cologne, Zoological Institute', u'Grant Institute, University of Edinburgh', u'Environmental Optics Laboratory, Department of Biological Physics, Physical Institute, E\xf6tv\xf6s Lor\xe1nd University']]
[u'Multilayered model of speech', ['Andrey Chistyakov'], u'2015-12-10', u'Today there are no grammar systems, which allow the creation of a fundamentally new word and concept. All existing grammar systems only work by referring to previously chosen terms, on the bases of which all definitions are created. Implementation of operation on grammar systems are introduced for creation of new terms. The main prerequisite of the research was the rejection of finding a universal solution, which is true for any person. Instead of this, all people were divided into groups according MBTI classification. Each group was expected to have uniform perception of new knowledge. Assessment has been conducted to each group. A mathematical model was created as result of the communication. The scheme of dividing words and sentences into components are shown in the first section of the article. The second section shows a notation construction from the components and the notation packing in memory. The third section shows the ability for conscious memory access (self-action and self-image). As a result, the model of human speech was structured, in where it is possible to create new terms from new knowledge independently.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1576/', ['Artificial Intelligence', 'Computational Linguistics', 'Natural Language and Speech'], [u'Non affiliated']]
[u'Resin and osteoblastic adhesion on zirconia and titanium implant materials blasted with various grits', ['Celine Joyce Cornelius Timothius', 'Christie YK Lung', 'Chaminda Jayampath Seneviratne', 'James KH Tsoi', 'Jukka P Matinlinna'], u'2015-12-09', u'Objective: The aim of this study was to evaluate the resin and initial osteoblastic adhesion of zirconia and titanium implant surfaces grit-blasted with four different sands, namely silica-coated alumina, alumina, silicon carbide and boron carbide. Materials and methods: Titanium and sintered zirconia were polished and grit-blasted with one of the following grits: silica-coated alumina, alumina, silicon carbide and boron carbide. Two study groups were prepared. For the first group, a silane coupling agent and a resin was applied on grit-blasted sample surfaces (n=8), and adhesive strengths of the dental resins to these specimens were evaluated under shear mode in three storage conditions: dry, 24h water aging and thermo-cycled for 6000 cycles. The results were analyzed by using two-way ANOVA test with 0.05 significance level. For the second group, the specimens were immersed in a cell line medium (MC3T3-E1) and the attachment was observed under a confocal microscope after 24 hours. The attached cells were fixed and viewed under an SEM to observe the cell morphology. Results: Surface topography and chemical composition of zirconia and titanium were changed after grit-blasting with four different grits. The specimens grit-blasted with silica-coated alumina or alumina exhibited a significantly higher mean resin adhesive strengths (p<0.05) than other two grits. In addition, SEM and confocal microscopy confirmed the specimens grit-blasted with alumina powder showed the maximum osteoblastic attachment, and revealed the cell morphology. Conclusion: With the limitation of the laboratory study, alumina deemed to be the best grit-blasting material to achieve satisfactory osteoblastic cell and resin adhesions for both titanium and zirconia implant materials .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1189/', ['Dentistry'], [u'Dental Materials Science, Faculty of Dentistry, The University of Hong Kong', u'Department of Oral Sciences, Faculty of Dentistry, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Foraging potential of underground storage organ plants in the southern Cape, South Africa', ['Elzanne Singels', 'Alastair J Potts', 'Karen J Esler', 'Richard M Cowling', 'Curtis W Marean', 'Jan C De Vynck'], u'2015-12-08', u'Underground storage organs (USOs) serve as a staple source of carbohydrates for many hunter-gatherer societies and they feature prominently in discussions of diets of early modern humans. While the way of life of hunter-gatherers in South Africa\u2019s Cape is no longer in existence, there is extensive ethnographic, historical and archaeological evidence of hunter-gatherers\u2019 use of such plants as foodstuffs. This is to be expected, given that the Cape supports the largest concentration of plants with USOs globally. The southern Cape is the location of several Middle Stone Age sites that are highly significant to research on the origins of behaviourally modern humans, and this provided the context for our research. Here we evaluate the foraging potential of USOs by identifying how abundant edible biomass is in a coastal setting of the southern Cape, how easily it is gathered, and how nutritious it is. We staged a range of foraging events to provide an indication of the potential return rates for selected USOs when a forager is likely to be na\xefve about foraging for them. Nearly all of the sites sampled (83%) contained edible USOs, and the edible biomass can be highly concentrated in space. The edible USO biomass fell within the range of biomass observed in areas supporting extant hunter-gatherer communities. The six USO species we assessed for nutritional content contained between 40-228 calories/100 g. They also grow near the soil surface, mostly in sandy soils, and were gathered with minimal effort. Some 50% of the foraging events conducted yielded enough calories to meet the daily requirements of a hunter-gatherer of small stature within 2 hours. Thus, we demonstrate that USOs are a readily available source of carbohydrates in the southern Cape landscape and that they likely played a critical role in providing food for early humans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1573/', ['Anthropology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'Archaeology, University of Cape Town', u'Centre for Coastal Palaeoscience, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University', u'Conservation Ecology and Entomology, University of Stellenbosch', u'Institute of Human Origins, School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University']]
[u'Mass spectrometry-based profiling of the carbon starved Escherichia coli proteome reveals upregulation of stress-inducible pathways implicated in biofilm formation and antibiotic resistance', ['Rakhan Aimbetov', 'Vasily Ogryzko'], u'2015-12-08', u"Starvation is a complex adaptive response to insufficiency of nutrients that has been known to implicate a number of stress networks, and modulate pathogenicity and antibiotic resistance in bacteria. However, naturally occurring abrupt elimination of nutrients and prolonged periods of their complete absence, e.g. when bacteria are placed in natural or artificial water reservoirs, are qualitatively different from in-culture late stationary phase energy source diminution. Despite the obvious importance of proteomic investigation of bacteria exposed to nutrient deficiency, no comprehensive study on the subject has been published. In order to address the said shortage of knowledge, we decided to quantitatively look into the proteome-level alterations elicited by the complete lack of nutrients that constitute a viable source of carbon, i.e. carbon starvation, in the Escherichia coli HT115-derived SLE1 strain cells using the combination of label-free and SILAC-based proteomics. As a result, we obtained protein ratios for 1,757 and 1,241 protein groups for each technique respectively, 2D-annotated the quantifiable proteins present in both datasets, identified over- and underrepresented Gene Ontology terms, and isolated protein groups \u22652-fold up- and downregulated in response to carbon starvation (44 and 36 protein groups respectively). We observed upregulation of proteins implicated in various stress-related networks, most notably those that constitute the Gene Ontology term 'Biological adhesion', as well as various terms related to stress. Additionally, we identified several uncharacterized proteins, and our report is the first to ascribe them to a stress-induced proteome. Our data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD003255 and DOI:10.6019/PXD003255.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1572/', ['Microbiology'], [u'CNRS UMR 8126, Institut Gustave Roussy']]
[u'Rethinking childhood adversity in chronic fatigue syndrome', ['James E Clark', 'Sean Davidson', 'Laura Maclachlan', 'Megan Lynn', 'Julia L Newton', 'Stuart Watson'], u'2015-12-07', u'Objectives: Previous studies have consistently shown increased rates of childhood adversity in chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS). However, such aetiopathogenic studies of CFS are potentially confounded by co-morbidity and misdiagnosis particularly with depression. We used a modelling approach with existing data and data generated in our examination of the rates of childhood adversity in a sample of CFS patients who had no lifetime history of depression. Methods: The childhood trauma questionnaire (CTQ) was completed by a sample of 52 participants and 19 controls with chronic fatigue syndrome who did not meet criteria for a psychiatric disorder (confirmed using the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV). Subsequently, Mediation Analysis (Baye\u2019s Rules) was used to establish the risk childhood adversity poses for CFS with and without depression. Results: In a cohort of CFS patients with depression robustly excluded, CTQ scores were markedly lower than in all previous studies and, in contrast to these previous studies, not increased compared with healthy controls. Post-hoc analysis showed that CTQ scores correlated with the number of depressive symptoms during the lifetime worst period of low mood. The probability of developing CFS given a history of childhood trauma was shown to be 4%, a two-fold increased risk compared to the general population. However, much of this risk is mediated by the concomitant development of major depression. Discussion: The data suggests that previous studies showing a relationship between childhood adversity and CFS may be mediated by depression', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1571/', ['Neurology'], [u'Faculty of Medical Sciences, Newcastle University']]
[u'Mouse xenograft models for elucidating drug resistance mechanisms', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2015-12-07', u'Divergence of treatment responses to chemotherapy exists across patients (often with underlying mechanisms unknown), with some patients exhibiting worsened outcome upon treatment. Genomic approaches (such as microarray profiling and whole-genome sequencing) hold promise for transforming cancer treatment, particularly, in tailoring drug regimen to specific patients. Nevertheless, formulating effective personalized treatment via surveying the mutational landscape remains difficult, due to current deficiencies in predicting drug sensitivity from genotype. Xenografts, both indirect (via cell line) and direct (from primary tumours), are good physiologic models of cancers. Their utility in informing cancer treatment, however, is constrained by high cost of generating and maintaining genetically modified animals, and the paucity of tissue samples from biopsies. Advent of high throughput biomolecular profiling tools finally enables reading out the expansive molecular fingerprints that encode observed phenotypes in xenografts. Using pheochromocytoma (an adrenal medulla cancer) as example, this short essay provides a broad overview of the scientific and clinical possibilities offered by xenograft models for understanding resistance mechanisms to particular chemotherapeutic regimens, and upon identification of the putative mutations, confirms their functional roles as either oncogenes or tumour suppressors. Additionally, workflow involved in generating a predictive platform, based on non-invasive blood biomarkers, for informing drug treatment options is discussed. Known as an integrated genomic classifier, combination of physiological response of direct xenografts to drug treatment and bioinformatics-enabled correlation of blood biomarkers to observed phenotype at cellular and animal levels, provides the biological basis for predicting patients\u2019 prognosis without invasive biopsy of solid tumours. Elucidation of drug resistance mechanisms entails: (i) recapitulating  in vivo  tumour behavior using cell lines derived from primary tumour; (ii) identification of aetiological mutations and longitudinal profiling of phenotypic response; and (iii) validation of mutations and phenotype via both knockout mice and direct allogenic xenografts. Biological models seek to recapitulate human physiology at specific levels of abstraction for answering particular questions, but incongruence in phenotype is inevitable. Nevertheless, xenografts (especially those derived from patients, PDTX), are powerful tools for addressing basic science, clinical and treatment-related questions using close functional replicas of patient physiology in an animal model. Residual incompatibility between model and patient response would require the expertise and clinical experience of oncologists for fine-tuning model suggested drug regimen to particular patients.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1049/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Genomics', 'Histology'], [u'Novena']]
[u'The furculae of the dromaeosaurid dinosaur Dakotaraptor steini are trionychid turtle entoplastra', ['Victoria M. Arbour', 'Lindsay E. Zanno', 'Derek W. Larson', 'David C. Evans', 'Hans-Dieter Sues'], u'2015-12-07', u"Dakotaraptor steini is a recently described dromaeosaurid dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous (Maastrichtian) Hell Creek Formation of South Dakota. Included within the D. steini hypodigm are three elements originally identified as furculae: one which is part of the holotype specimen and two referred specimens. We show that the elements described as D. steini \u2018furculae\u2019 are not theropod dinosaur furculae, but rather trionychid turtle entoplastra. Given that the holotype 'furcula' is not referable to Dromaeosauridae and that the specimen is a disarticulated individual based on skeletal remains from a multitaxic bonebed, the holotype of Dakotaraptor steini is a chimera.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1570/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Paleontology Research Lab, North Carolina Museum of Natural Sciences', u'Department of Biological Sciences, North Carolina State University', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto', u'Department of Natural History, Royal Ontario Museum', u'Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History']]
[u'Consideration of uncertainties in environmental science and management with examples from Pacific salmon', ['Randall Peterman'], u'2015-12-05', u'An informal review of the history of new quantitative methods in environmental science, including environmental risk assessment, shows about a 10- to 20-year lag in wide acceptance of such methods by management agencies. To reduce that lag time as innovative methods continue to emerge, environmental scientists will need to work much more intensively with communications specialists on better ways to explain risk analyses and decision-making strategies to non-technical decision makers and the public. Four key uncertainties make such communication difficult: (1) natural variability in both physical and biological processes, (2) imperfect data arising from observation error (i.e., measurement error), (3) incomplete understanding of an environmental system\'s structure and dynamics, and (4) outcome uncertainty (deviations between realized outcomes and management targets). These uncertainties create risks -- risks to natural populations as well as to people who use them. Examples of these four sources of uncertainty are presented here for Pacific salmon (Oncorhynchus spp.). One promising framework for explicitly taking such uncertainties into account was initially developed in the early 1990s by scientific advisors to the International Whaling Commission. They built stochastic models, which essentially were comprehensive formal decision analyses, to derive management procedures (i.e., sampling designs for collecting data, methods to analyze those data, and state-dependent harvest-control rules for use by managers) that were robust to all the uncertainties considered. This method of "Management Strategy Evaluation" or "Management Procedure Evaluation" is now considered the "gold standard" for conducting risk assessments and making risk-management decisions in marine fisheries.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1569/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'School of Resource and Environmental Management, Simon Fraser University']]
[u'Assessing migration patterns in Passerina ciris using the world\u2019s bird collections as an aggregated resource', ['Ethan Linck', 'Eli S Bridge', 'Jonah M Duckles', 'Adolfo G Navarro-Siguenza', 'Sievert Rohwer'], u'2015-12-05', u'Natural history museum collections (NHCs) represent a rich and largely untapped source of data on demography and population movements. NHC specimen records can be corrected to a crude measure of collecting effort and reflect relative population densities with a method known as abundance indices. We plot abundance index values from georeferenced NHC data in a 12-month series for the new world migratory passerine Passerina ciris across its molting and wintering range in Mexico and Central America. We illustrate a statistically significant change in abundance index values across regions and months that suggests a quasi-circular movement around its non-breeding range, and use enhanced vegetation index (EVI) analysis of remote sensing plots to demonstrate non-random association of specimen record density with areas of high primary productivity. We demonstrate how abundance indices from NHC specimen records can be applied to infer previously unknown migratory behavior, and be integrated with remote sensing data to allow for a deeper understanding of demography and behavioral ecology across space and time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1567/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology and Burke Museum of Natural History & Culture, University of Washington', u'Oklahoma Biological Survey, University of Oklahoma', u'Executive Director, The Software Carpentry Foundation', u'Departamento de Biolog\xeda Evolutiva, Museo de Zoolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico']]
[u'Effective protein inhibition in intact mouse oocytes through peptide nanoparticle-mediated antibody transfection', ['Ruichao Li', 'Zhen Jin', 'Leilei Gao', 'Peng Liu', 'Zhixia Yang', 'Dong Zhang'], u'2015-12-05', u'Female meiosis is a fundamental area of study in reproductive medicine, and the mouse oocyte model of in vitro maturation (IVM) to study female meiosis is the most widely used. To investigate the probable role(s) of an unknown protein in female meiosis, the method traditionally used involves microinjecting a specific antibody into mouse oocytes. Recently, in studies on somatic cells, peptide nanoparticle-mediated antibody transfection has become a popular tool because of its high efficiency, low toxicity, good stability, and strong serum compatibility. However, till now, no researchers have tried using this technique on mouse oocytes because the zona pellucida surrounding the oocyte membrane (vitelline membrane) is usually thought or proved to be a tough barrier to macromolecules, such as antibodies and proteins. Therefore, we attempted to introduce an antibody into mouse oocytes using a peptide nanoparticle. Here we show for the first time that with our optimized method, an antibody can be effectively delivered into mouse oocytes and inhibit its target protein with high specificity. We obtained significant results using small GTPase Arl2 as a test subject protein. We propose peptide nanoparticle-mediated antibody transfection to be a superior alternative to antibody microinjection for preliminary functional studies of unknown proteins in mouse oocytes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1566/', ['Biotechnology', 'Cell Biology', "Women's Health"], [u'State Key Laboratory of Reproductive Medicine, Nanjing Medical University']]
[u'Evolution of b-type cytochromes in prokaryotes', ['Vassiliki Lila Koumandou', 'Sophia Kossida'], u'2015-12-04', u'Prokaryotes use a wide variety of bioenergetic pathways but the order of emergence of these pathways and their evolutionary relationships are still unresolved issues. In this study we focus on the evolutionary relationships of different families of b-type cytochromes, which form part of a variety of bioenergetic enzymes (the cytochrome b6f complex, ubiquinol and menaquinol reductases, formate dehydrogenase, Ni/Fe-hydrogenase, and succinate dehydrogenase). We use data from 272 species of fully sequenced bacteria and archaea, which represent the full diversity of prokaryotic lineages and multiple bioenergetic modes, to examine the distribution of these cytochromes across lineages, and ask the question of whether sequences from different species cluster by cytochrome-b family, by bioenergetic mode or by taxonomic group. Different cytochrome-b types are found in many lineages of the bacteria and archaea, and form distinct groups in phylogenetic analysis, which indicates an ancient origin for this complex, and diversification of different cytochrome-b types before the diversification of lineages. We find that species do not cluster based on bioenergetic mode. We also re-examine data from previous studies using this expanded sample of organisms spanning the full diversity of prokaryotic lineages. Concerning the b6f complex of photosynthetic organisms, our expanded phylogenies do not show significant bootstrap support for a "green clade" of cytochrome b6; also, the split form of b6 is not monophyletic, indicating that the split form arose independently multiple times. We also present data on the similarities between prokaryotic and eukaryotic cytochrome b561 sequences, in light of the recently reported structure of eukaryotic cytochrome b561.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1564/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology, Agricultural University of Athens', u'IMGT, Institute of Human Genetics']]
[u'Dopamine modulates synaptic transmission in the premotor nuclei of songbirds', ['Songhua Wang', 'Shaoyi Liu', 'Congshu Liao', 'Wei Meng', 'Dongfeng LI'], u'2015-12-04', u'Songbirds, such as zebra finches, contribute to explore behaviors underlying neural activities. Birdsong is controlled by the song system. The robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA) is a key nucleus for producing birdsong in the song system. The RA receives dopaminergic \uff08DArgic\uff09 inputs from the midbrain, however, the function of these inputs involved excitatory synaptic transmission is still unclear. Excitatory synaptic transmission is critical in the signal integration activities of the brain. We examined the effects of dopamine (DA) on excitatory synaptic transmission of the projection neurons in the RA of adult male zebra finches, using whole-cell recording technique. We found that DA (100 \u03bcM) decreases the frequency of spontaneous and miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs/mEPSCs). In our further study, these effects of DA were reversed by the D1-like dopamine receptor (D1R) antagonist and stimulated by a D1R agonist. However, a D2-like dopamine receptor (D2R) has no influence on the effects of DA. These results demonstrate that DA can inhibit excitatory synaptic transmission mainly via activation of D1R in adult male zebra finches.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1563/', ['Neuroscience', 'Zoology'], [u'School of Life Science, South China Normal University']]
[u'Species detections in environmental DNA using metabarcoding: a useful tool in estuaries monitoring', ['Adrian Martinez-Marques', 'Carlos Enrique Carleos', 'Eva Garcia-Vazquez', 'Yaisel J. Borrell Pichs'], u'2015-12-03', u'Estuaries are amongst the most productive habitats in Earth, producing more organic materia than forests, meadows or agricultural lands. In addition, estuaries exhibit high, and precious, biodiversity levels. In this study an environmental DNA analysis of the two most important estuaries in Asturias (Cantabrian Coast, north Iberia) in terms of food production (R\xeda del Eo and R\xeda de Villaviciosa) was carried out. The objective was to monitor aquatic biodiversity and also to detect alien species that can be associated with anthropogenic activities (e.g.: aquaculture). To achieve these objectives, a metabarcoding methodology based in NGS (next generation sequencing) and the mitochondrial COI gene as a DNA Barcode was used. Results showed that this methodology was useful to detect the presence of three different non-native genera (Crepidula, Lymnaea, Macrobrachium) that are probably parasitating species cultured in these estuaries. It is true that Metabarcoding has still unsolved problems such as the lack of 100% universal primers and paucity of referenced sequences for some taxonomic groups in the databases. However, it represents already a powerful tool to manage the resources of these important ecosystems and to guarantee their long-term sustainailibity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1562/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biolog\xeda Funcional, University of Oviedo', u'Departamento de Estad\xedstica e Investigaci\xf3n Operativa y Did\xe1ctica de la Matem\xe1tica, University of Oviedo']]
[u'Molecular barcoding of red algae in the Cantabrian Sea reveals the presence of exotic asian seaweeds (Pachymeniopsis gargiuli, Grateloupia imbricata Holmes and Grateloupia turuturu Yamada)', ['Marcos Montes', 'Jose Manuel Rico', 'Eva Garcia-Vazquez', 'Yaisel J. Borrell Pichs'], u'2015-12-03', u'Introduction of exotic species may cause serious consequences for marine ecosystems. On the shores of the Cantabrian Sea (North of Spain) there is no routine examinations of seaweeds combining molecular and morphological methods for early detection of exotic species and thereby to assess in early stages their establishment and expansion processes as a result of anthropogenic activities (e.g.: shipping, aquaculture, etc). In this work we conducted molecular barcoding (COI and RbcL genes) of red algae collected in Asturias, Bay of Biscay (Gij\xf3n and Cand\xe1s harbours). The results reveal the presence of the exotic Asian seaweeds (Pachymeniopsis gargiuli, Grateloupia imbricata Holmes and Grateloupia turuturu Yamada). This study constitutes the first report where the presence of these asian algae in this area of the Bay of Biscay is confirmed. The work demonstrates the success in combining morphological and genetic methods in the early detection of exotic algae and proposes that the "molecular barcoding" must be made primarily using the Rbcl gene. The COI Databases are still incomplete and imprecise to obtain successful results in red algae species-level identifications.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1561/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biolog\xeda Funcional, University of Oviedo', u'Biolog\xeda de Organismos y Sistemas (BOS), University of Oviedo']]
[u'Environmental challenges may impact on somatic repair', ['Marios Kyriazis'], u'2015-12-03', u'During the process of ageing there is canalisation of repair resources which tend to flow from the soma towards the germ line. In the early periods of phylogenetic development there was a time when repair of germ line cells became more efficient compared to the repair of somatic cells. The level of somatic repair became just enough to ensure that the organism reached sexual maturity. It was the biological equivalent of the mathematical bifurcation, when the pathway developed preferentially towards the germ line attractor. We are now looking for evidence that this could be changing, that we may be witnessing a phase transition from effective germ line repair to an effective somatic repair. Here I consider mechanisms of fidelity-preservation which may be present in the germ line, and examine the possibility that these may be made to operate upon somatic cells instead. Mechanisms which safeguard the reliability of germ line repair and ensuring robustness/resilience in the germ line may also (or instead) be applicable upon somatic material (cells and molecules, factors) and ensure a continually effective repair of this somatic material. Thus the ability to continually repair and maintain somatic organic material within biological systems is not lost. Continual challenges from the environment ensure that the flow of information remains active and it persistently stimulates the ability to repair the soma. Apart from germ line cells, some unicellular organisms such as bacteria maintain their ability for ongoing repairs, a fact that indicates that, in principle, senescence is not unavoidable.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1560/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Non-profit research organisation, ELPIs Foundation for Indefinite Lifespans']]
[u'Characterisation of the human uterine microbiome in non-pregnant women through deep sequencing of the V1-2 region of the 16S rRNA gene', ['Hans Verstraelen', 'Ramiro Vilchez-Vargas', 'Fabian Desimpel', 'Ruy Jauregui', 'Nele Vankeirsbilck', 'Steven Weyers', 'Rita Verhelst', 'Petra De Sutter', 'Dietmar H Pieper', 'Tom Van De Wiele'], u'2015-12-03', u'Background. It is widely assumed that the uterine cavity in non-pregnant women is physiologically sterile, also as a premise to the long-held view that human infants develop in a sterile uterine environment, though likely reflecting under-appraisal of the extent of the human bacterial metacommunity. In an exploratory study, we aimed to investigate the putative presence of a uterine microbiome in a selected series of non-pregnant women through deep sequencing of the V1-2 hypervariable region of the 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) gene. Methods. Nineteen women with various reproductive conditions, including subfertility, scheduled for hysteroscopy and not showing uterine anomalies were recruited. Subjects were highly diverse with regard to demographic and medical history and included nulliparous and parous women. Endometrial tissue and mucus harvesting was performed by use of a transcervical device designed to obtain endometrial biopsy, while avoiding cervicovaginal contamination. Bacteria were targeted by use of a barcoded Illumina MiSeq paired-end sequencing method targeting the 16S rRNA gene V1-2 region, yielding an average of 41,194 reads per sample after quality filtering. Taxonomic annotation was pursued by comparison with sequences available through the Ribosomal Database Project and the NCBI database. Results. Out of 183 unique 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequences, 15 phylotypes were present in all samples. In some 90% of the women included, community architecture was fairly similar in as much B. xylanisolvens, B. thetaiotaomicron, B. fragilis and an undetermined Pelomonas taxon constituted over one third of the endometrial bacterial community. On the singular phylotype level, six women showed predominance of L. crispatus or L. iners in the presence of the Bacteroides core. Two endometrial communities were highly dissimilar, largely lacking the Bacteroides core, one dominated by L. crispatus and another consisting of a highly diverse community, including Prevotella spp., Atopobium vaginae, and Mobiluncus curtisii. Discussion. Our findings are, albeit not necessarily generalizable, consistent with the presence of a unique microbiota dominated by Bacteroides residing on the endometrium of the human non-pregnant uterus. The transcervical sampling approach may be influenced to an unknown extent by endocervical microbiota, which remain uncharacterised, and therefore warrants further validation. Nonetheless, consistent with our understanding of the human microbiome, the uterine microbiota are likely to have a previously unrecognized role in uterine physiology and human reproduction. Further study is therefore warranted to document community ecology and dynamics of the uterine microbiota, as well as the role of the uterine microbiome in health and disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1269/', ['Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Gynecology and Obstetrics', "Women's Health"], [u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Ghent University', u'Laboratory of Microbial Ecology and Technology (LabMET), Ghent University', u'Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Ghent University', u'Microbial Interactions and Processes (MINP) Research Group, Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research']]
[u'Modelling lake trophic state: A random forest approach', ['Jeffrey W Hollister', 'W. Bryan Milstead', 'Betty J. Kreakie'], u'2015-12-03', u'Productivity of lentic ecosystems is well studied and it is widely accepted that as nutrient inputs increase, productivity increases and lakes transition from lower trophic state (e.g. oligotrophic) to higher trophic states (e.g. eutrophic). These broad trophic state classifications are good predictors of ecosystem condition, services, and disservices (e.g. recreation, aesthetics, and harmful algal blooms). While the relationship between nutrients and trophic state provides reliable predictions, it requires in situ water quality data in order to parameterize the model. This limits the application of these models to lakes with existing and, more importantly, available water quality data. To address this, we take advantage of the availability of a large national lakes water quality database (i.e. the National Lakes Assessment), land use/land cover data, lake morphometry data, other universally available data, and apply data mining approaches to predict trophic state. Using this data and random forests, we first model chlorophyll a, then classify the resultant predictions into trophic states. The full model estimates chlorophyll a with both in situ and universally available data. The mean squared error and adjusted R2 of this model was 0.09 and 0.8, respectively. The second model uses universally available GIS data only. The mean squared error was 0.22 and the adjusted R2 was 0.48. The accuracy of the trophic state classifications derived from the chlorophyll a predictions were 69% for the full model and 49% for the \u201cGIS only\u201d model. Random forests extend the usefulness of the class predictions by providing prediction probabilities for each lake. This allows us to make trophic state predictions and also indicate the level of uncertainity around those predictions. For the full model, these predicted class probabilites ranged from 0.42 to 1. For the GIS only model, they ranged from 0.33 to 0.96. It is our conclusion that in situ data are required for better predictions, yet GIS and universally available data provide trophic state predictions, with estimated uncertainty, that still have the potential for a broad array of applications. The source code and data for this manuscript are available from https://github.com/USEPA/LakeTrophicModelling.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1319/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Office Of Research and Development, Atlantic Ecology Division, US Environmental Protection Agency']]
[u'The challenges to inferring the regulators of biodiversity in deep time', ['Thomas H Ezard', 'Tiago B Quental', 'Michael J Benton'], u'2015-12-03', u'Attempts to infer the ecological drivers of macroevolution have long drawn inspiration from work on extant systems, but long-term evolutionary and geological changes complicate the simple extrapolation of such theory into a deep-time setting. Recent efforts to incorporate a more informed ecology into macroevolution have moved beyond the descriptive to attempts that seek to isolate the generating mechanisms of dynamic signatures to produce testable hypotheses of how species and larger groups usurp or co-exist alongside one another over vast spans of time. The papers of this Theme Issue exemplify this progress, providing a series of case studies of how novel modelling approaches are helping infer the regulators of biodiversity in deep time. In this Introduction, we aim to discuss the challenges associated with this area. We break our Introduction into four main areas. First, we discuss how our choices of biological units for study have implications for the conclusions subsequently drawn. Second, we emphasize the need to embrace the interdependence of biotic and abiotic change, because no living organism ignores its environment. Third, in the light of parts 1 and 2, we discuss the set of dynamic signatures that we might expect to observe in the fossil record. Finally, we ask whether these signatures are the most ecologically informative foci for research efforts aimed at inferring the regulators of biodiversity in deep time. The papers in this Theme Issue contribute in each of these areas.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1559/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Ocean & Earth Sciences and Centre for Biological Sciences, University of Southampton', u'Departamento de Ecologia, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo', u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol']]
[u'Cardiovascular manifestations of renovascular hypertension in diabetic mice', ['Sonu Kashyap', 'Sean Engel', 'Mazen Osman', 'Yousif Al-Saiegh', 'Asarn Wongjarupong', 'Joseph P Grande'], u'2015-12-03', u'Purpose. Type 2 diabetes is the leading cause of end stage renal disease in the United States. Atherosclerotic renal artery stenosis is commonly observed in diabetic patients and impacts the rate of renal and cardiovascular disease progression. We hypothesized that renal artery stenosis contributes to bilateral renal disease in diabetics. In our original study, we found that leptin-deficient diabetic (db/db) mice subjected to RAS developed severe and bilateral renal disease, with the contralateral (uncuffed) kidney showing features reminiscent of progressive diabetic nephropathy. In non-diabetic mice (WT), the cuffed kidney developed progressive atrophy, but the contralateral kidney showed minimal histopathologic alterations. In doing these studies, we observed increased sudden death in db/db mice with RAS, but not in WT mice with RAS. The objective of this study was to characterize the aortic and cardiac phenotype of db/db mice subjected to RAS. Methods. We developed a murine model of renal artery stenosis by placement of a polytetrafluoroethylene cuff on the right renal artery in db/db mice. We studied 109 WT and 95 db/db mice subjected to Renal artery stenosis (RAS) or sham surgery. Results. The mortality rate of db/db RAS mice was about 23.5%, whereas only 1.5% deaths were observed in WT RAS mice. Interestingly, 60% of mortality in the db/db mice occurred in the first two weeks following RAS surgery. Necropsy showed massive intrathoracic hemorrhage associated with aortic dissection. Aortas from db/db RAS mice showed more smooth muscle dropout, medial disruption, and hemorrhage than aortas from WT mice with RAS. Cardiac tissue from db/db RAS mice had more fibrosis than did cardiac tissue from WT RAS mice. Conclusions. Db/db mice subjected to RAS are prone to develop fatal aortic dissection, which is not observed in WT mice with RAS. The db/db RAS model provides the basis for future studies directed towards defining basic mechanisms underlying the interaction of hypertension and diabetes on the development of aortic lesions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1323/', ['Cardiology', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Nephrology', 'Pathology', 'Translational Medicine'], [u'Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic', u'Wartburg College', u'Hannover Medical School, Medizinischen Hochschule Hannover (MHH)', u'Department of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University', u'Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Mayo Clinic']]
[u'PATACSDB - The database of polyA translational attenuators in coding sequences', ['Malgorzata Habich', 'Sergej Djuranovic', 'Pawel Szczesny'], u'2015-12-03', u"Recent addition to the repertoire of gene expression regulatory mechanisms are polyadenylate (polyA) tracks encoding for poly-lysine runs in protein sequences. Such tracks stall translation apparatus and induce frameshifting independently of the effects of charged nascent poly-lysine sequence on the ribosome exit channel. As such they substantially influence the stability of mRNA and amount of protein produced from a given transcript. Single base changes in these regions are enough to exert a measurable response on both protein and mRNA abundance, and makes each of these sequences potentially interesting case studies for effects of synonymous mutation, gene dosage balance and natural frameshifting. Here we present the PATACSDB, a resource that contain comprehensive list of polyA tracks from over 250 eukaryotic genomes. Our data is based on Ensembl genomic database of coding sequences and filtered with algorithm of 12A-1 which selects sequences of polyA tracks with a minimal length of 12 A's allowing for one mismatched base. The PATACSDB database is accesible at: http://sysbio.ibb.waw.pl/patacsdb. Source code is available for download from GitHub repository at http://github.com/habich/PATACSDB, including the scripts to recreate the database from the scratch on user's own computer.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1557/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Databases'], [u'Department of Bioinformatics, Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics Polish Academy of Sciences', u'Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Faculty of Biology, Institute of Experimental Plant Biology and Biotechnology, University of Warsaw']]
[u'Origin of aromatase inhibitory activity via proteochemometric modeling', ['Saw Simeon', 'Ola Spjuth', 'Maris Lapins', 'Sunanta Nabu', 'Virapong Prachayasittikul', 'Jarl ES Wikberg', 'Chanin Nantasenamat'], u'2015-12-01', u'Aromatase, which is a rate-limiting enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of androgen to estrogen, plays an essential role in the development of estrogen-dependent breast cancer. Side effects due to aromatase inhibitors (AIs) necessitate the pursuit of novel inhibitor candidates with high selectivity, lower toxicity and increased potency. Designing a novel therapeutic agent against aromatase could be achieved computationally by means of ligand-based and structure-based methods. For over a decade, we have utilized both approaches to design potential AIs for which quantitative structure-activity relationship and molecular docking were used to explore inhibitory mechanisms of AIs towards aromatase. However, such approaches do not consider the effects that aromatase variants have on different AIs. In this study, proteochemometrics modeling was applied to analyze the interaction space between AIs and aromatase variants as a function of their substructural and amino acid features. Good predictive performance was achieved, as rigorously verified by 10-fold cross-validation, external validation, leave-one-compound-out cross-validation, leave-one-protein-out cross-validation and Y-scrambling tests. The investigations presented herein provide important insights into the mechanisms of aromatase inhibitory activity that could aid in the design of novel potent AIs as breast cancer therapeutic agents.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1556/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Center of Data Mining and Biomedical Informatics, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University', u'Department of Pharmaceutical Biosciences, Uppsala University', u'Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University']]
[u'SimpleDSFviewer: a tool to analyse and view differential scanning fluorimetry data for characterising protein thermal stability and interactions', ['Changye Sun', 'Yong Li', 'Edwin A Yates', 'David G Fernig'], u'2015-12-01', u'Differential scanning fluorimetry (DSF) is used widely as a thermal shift assay to study protein stability and protein-ligand interactions. The benefit of DSF is that it is simple, cheap and can generate melting curves in 96-well plates providing good throughput. However, data analysis remains a challenge, and requires different methods to optimise and analyse the collected raw data. Here, the program SimpleDSFviewer is introduced to help view and analyse DSF data in an efficient way and with a user-friendly interface. The data analysis, optimisation and view methods provided by the program are described, using sample melting curves of fibroblast growth factors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1555/', ['Biochemistry'], [u'Biochemistry, University of Liverpool']]
[u'Contemporary premature feather loss (PFL) among common tern chicks in Lake Ontario: the return of an enigmatic developmental anomaly', ['Jennifer M. Arnold', 'Donald J. Tyerman', 'Doug Crump', 'Kim L. Williams', 'Stephen A. Oswald'], u'2015-11-30', u'In July 2014, we observed premature feather loss (PFL) among non-sibling, common tern Sterna hirundo chicks between 2 and 4 weeks of age at Gull Island in northern Lake Ontario, Canada. Rarely observed in wild birds, to our knowledge PFL has not been recorded in terns since 1974, despite the banding of tens of thousands of tern chicks across North America since then. The prevalence (5% of chicks) and extent of feather loss was more extreme than in previous reports but was not accompanied by other aberrant developmental or physical deformities. Complete feather loss from all body areas (wing, tail, head and body) occurred over a period of a few days but all affected chicks appeared vigorous and quickly began to grow replacement feathers. All but one (recovered dead and submitted for post-mortem) most likely fledged 10-20 days after normal fledging age. Secondary covert feather samples were collected from PFL chicks (n=6; including shed feathers and re-growing live feathers) and normal individuals (n=8; plucked live feathers) and were analyzed for corticosterone concentrations. There was striking temporal association between the onset of PFL and persistent strong southwesterly winds that caused extensive mixing of near-shore surface water with cool, deep lake waters. We found no evidence of feather dystrophy, concurrent developmental abnormalities or nutritional shortfall among affected chicks. Thus, the PFL we observed among common terns in 2014 was largely of unknown origin but may have been caused by unidentified pathogens or toxins welling up from these deep waters along the shoreline. PFL was not observed among common terns at Gull Island in 2015, although we did observe similar feather loss in a herring gull Larus argentatus chick in that year. Comparison with sporadic records of PFL in other seabirds suggests that PFL may be a rare, but non-specific response to a range of potential stressors. Its reemergence in penguins, and now gulls and terns, may indicate widespread environmental changes that could lead to health risks for birds and other wildlife.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1196/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Toxicology', 'Virology', 'Public Health'], [u'Division of Science, Pennsylvania State University, Berks Campus', u'Presqu\u2019ile Provincial Park, Ontario Parks', u'National Wildlife Research Centre, Environment Canada']]
[u'Bioinformati\u0441 properties of sign language motion indicated by fractal complexity', ['Evie Malaia', 'Joshua Borneman', 'Ronnie B. Wilbur'], u'2015-11-30', u"We make a first attempt at distinguishing information-carrying visual signal by comparing visual characteristics of American Sign Language and everyday human motion, to identify what clues might be available in one but not in the other. The comparison indicated significantly higher fractal complexity in sign language across tested frequency bands (0.01-15 Hz), as compared to everyday motion. A comparison of our results with the work also showing high fractal complexity in the speech signal allows us to suggest the underlying properties of linguistic signals which allow babies to 'tune to' a specific channel, or modality, during language acquisition.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1551/', ['Computational Biology'], [u'Netherlands Institute for Advanced Studies', u'Department of Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences, and Linguistics Program, Purdue University']]
[u'Selecting the best growth model for elasmobranches', ['Kwang-Ming Liu', 'Chiao-Bin Wu', 'Shoou-Jeng Joung', 'Wen-Pei Tsai'], u'2015-11-30', u'Age and growth information is essential for accurate stock assessment of fish, and growth model selection may influence the result of stock assessment. Previous descriptions of the age and growth of elasmobranches relied mainly on the von Bertalanffy growth model (VBGM). However, it has been noted that sharks, skates and rays exhibit significant variety in size, shape, and life-history traits. Given this variation, the VBGM may not necessarily provide the best fit for all elasmobranches. This study attempts to improve the accuracy of age estimates by testing four growth models\u2014the VBGM, two-parameter VBGM, Robertson (Logistic) and Gompertz models\u2014to fit observed and simulated length-at-age data for 37 species of elasmobranches. The best growth model was selected based on corrected Akaike\u2019s Information Criterion (AICc), the AICc difference, and the AICc weight. The VBGM and two-parameter VBGM provide the best fit for species with slow growth and extended longevity (L\u221e > 100 cm TL, 0.05 < k < 0.15 yr-1), such as pelagic sharks. For fast-growing small sharks (L\u221e < 100 cm TL, kr or kg > 0.2 yr-1) in deep waters and for small-sized demersal skates/rays, the Robertson and the Gompertz models provide the best fit. The best growth models for small sharks in shallow waters are the two-parameter VBGM and the Robertson model, while all the species best fit by the Gompertz model are skates and rays.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1550/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science'], [u'Institute of Marine Affairs and Resource Management, National Taiwan Ocean University', u'Department of Environmental Biology and Fisheries Science, National Taiwan Ocean University', u'Department of Fishery Production and Management, National Kaohsiung Marine University']]
[u'The potential of using sets of specimens to handle species concepts', ['Edward Baker'], u'2015-11-30', u'The use of notation and concepts from mathematical set theory is investigated as a method for describing species concepts, and potentially higher level taxa. These methods may facilitate the easy databasing of species concepts, allowing the concepts themselves to become citable through the provision of unique identifiers. The increase in unique identifiers (such as Life Science Identifiers or Digital Object Identifiers) for biological specimens in recent years may make this approach more feasible than it would have been previously.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1533/', ['Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Life Sciences, Natural History Museum']]
[u'Investigation of the suitability of Remane\u2019s \u201cspecies minimum\u201d concept in a Mediterranean transitional waters ecosystem', ['Christina Pavloudi', 'Anastasis Oulas', 'Jon B Kristoffersen', 'Michael W Friedrich', 'Christos Arvanitidis'], u'2015-11-30', u"Remane\u2019s Artenminimum (\u201cspecies minimum\u201d) concept was developed for the Baltic Sea, the world\u2019s largest semi-enclosed brackish water body with a unique permanent salinity gradient. It argues that taxonomic diversity of macrobenthic organisms is lowest within the horohalinicum, which occurs at salinity 5 to 8, because the number of brackish specialists does not compensate for the decline in marine and freshwater diversity. The aim of the present study was to investigate the sediment bacterial diversity of a transect river-lagoon-open sea, i.e. from freshwater to marine, occurring at Amvrakikos Gulf (Ionian Sea, Western Greece) and to test whether it follows the Remane's concept, both in terms of species composition but also of functionality. DNA was extracted from sediment samples collected in situ from four stations along the aforementioned transect and sequenced for the 16S rRNA gene. In addition, sediment samples were collected for the assessment of benthic macroorganismic diversity. Moreover, several environmental parameters were measured and their correlation with the diversity patterns was explored. The results of the study shed light on the microbial biodiversity of transitional water ecosystems and reveal the effect of salinity on species diversity, both on microorganisms and on macrobenthic organisms.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1549/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Hellenic Centre for Marine Research, Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and Aquaculture', u'Faculty of Sciences, University of Ghent, Department of Biology', u'Faculty of Biology, University of Bremen, Department of Microbial Ecophysiology']]
[u'Spectroscopic studies on Permian plant fossils in the Pedra de Fogo Formation from the Parna\xedba Basin, Brazil', ['Domingas Conceicao', 'Joao da Silva', 'Juan Cisneros', 'Roberto Iannuzzi', 'Bartolomeu C Viana', 'Gilberto Saraiva', 'Joel Sousa', 'Paulo T Freire'], u'2015-11-30', u'The \u201cPedra de Fogo\u201d Formation dated from the Permian period (approximately 280 million years ago), belongs to the sedimentary Parnaiba Basin, located in the northeastern region of Brazil. It is recognized by their well preserved fossil contents and it is notable for having several fossilized trunks in the growing position. Specimens from different localities were selected in order to perform spectroscopic studies and X-ray diffraction analysis, as well, for the purpose of identifying and characterizing compounds related to the fossilized materials. These different techniques allowed to obtain information from the molecular spectra in organic and inorganic substances, which are present in these above stated fossils and in the atomic elements, as well as the crystalline phases. These aforementioned studies have revealed promising paleoenvironmental interpretations about their depositional strata. Regarding the techniques, these have enabled inferences with respect to the fossil diagenetic events and allowed a better understanding of the fossilized process and the mineralogical characteristics of the living environment, where the plants were buried. This study presents physical and/or chemical properties of the fossilized plants through vibrational spectroscopies, SEM/EDS spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction techniques. Based on the results duly obtained, we were able to identify the presence of silica and confirm that the dominant process of the fossilized specimens investigated has occurred through quartz silicification with the contribution of persistence from amorphous carbon.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1547/', ['Biodiversity', 'Paleontology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Geologia, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco', u'Engenharia, Universidade Federal do Car\xedri', u'Centro de Ci\xeancias da Natureza, Universidade Federal do Piau\xed', u'Paleontologia and Stratigraphy, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul', u'Physics, Universidade Federal do Piau\xed', u'F\xedsica, Universidade Estadual do Cear\xe1', u'Geologia, Universidade Federal do Cear\xe1', u'Departamento de F\xedsica, Universidade Federal do Cear\xe1']]
[u'hormLong: An R package for longitudinal data analysis in wildlife endocrinology studies', ['Benjamin Fanson', 'Kerry V Fanson'], u'2015-11-30', u'The growing number of wildlife endocrinology studies have greatly enhanced our understanding of comparative endocrinology, and have also generated extensive longitudinal data for a vast number of species. However, the extensive graphical analysis required for these longitudinal datasets can be time consuming because there is often a need to create tens, if not hundreds, of graphs. Furthermore, routine methods for summarising hormone profiles, such as the iterative baseline approach and area under the curve (AUC), can be tedious and non-reproducible, especially for large number of individuals. We developed an R package, hormLong, which provides the basic functions to perform graphical and numerical analyses routinely used by wildlife endocrinologists. To encourage its use, hormLong has been developed such that no familiarity with R is necessary. Here, we provide a brief overview of the functions currently available and demonstrate their utility with previously published Asian elephant data. We hope that this package will promote reproducibility and encourage standardization of wildlife hormone data analysis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1546/', ['Biodiversity', 'Computational Biology', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology'], [u'Centre for Integrative Ecology, School of Life and Environmental Sciences, Deakin University']]
[u'The effect of the dispersal kernel on isolation-by-distance in a continuous population', ['Tara N Furstenau', 'Reed A Cartwright'], u'2015-11-30', u'Under models of isolation-by-distance, population structure is determined by the probability of identity-by-descent between pairs of genes according to the geographic distance between them. Well established analytical results indicate that the relationship between geographical and genetic distance depends mostly on the neighborhood size of the population, \\(N_b = 4\\pi\\sigma^2 D_e\\), which represents a standardized measure of gene flow. To test this prediction, we model local dispersal of haploid individuals on a two-dimensional torus using seven dispersal kernels: Rayleigh, Exponential, Half-normal, Triangular, Gamma, Lomax and Pareto. When neighborhood size is held constant, the distributions produce similar patterns of isolation-by-distance, confirming predictions. Considering this, we propose that the triangular distribution is the appropriate null distribution for isolation-by-distance studies. Under the triangular distribution, dispersal is uniform within an area of \\(4\\pi\\sigma^2\\) (i.e. the neighborhood area), which suggests that the common description of neighborhood size as a measure of a local panmictic population is valid for popular families of dispersal distributions. We further show how to draw from the triangular distribution efficiently and argue that it should be utilized in other studies in which computational efficiency is important.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1545/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'School of Life Sciences and the Biodesign Institute, Arizona State University']]
[u'Mitochondrial phylogenomics and genetic population structure of anchovies (Engraulis encrasicolus) along the Moroccan coast using sequence analysis of the mitochondrial DNA cytochrome b', ['Khalil Chahdi Ouazzani', 'Touria Benazzou', 'Naoki Tojo', 'Malika Chlaida'], u'2015-11-30', u'A fragment of 680 bp of mitochondrial cytochrome b locus of European anchovies, Engraulis encrasicolus, was sequenced for 138 individuals collected from three Moroccan Atlantic areas and from Moroccan Alboran Sea. These samples were surveyed for diversity and differentiation with a range of summary statistics. The results showed that the most dominant clade in Moroccan anchovy is Clade A with a percentage ranging from 89% in Alboran Sea to 91% - 95 % in the Moroccan Atlantic coast. Overall, there was a significant genetic differentiation among the 4 Moroccan anchovy zones (\u03a6st = 0.01283; p=0.03910). Pairwise \u03a6st among populations and multidimensional scaling revealed a high homogeneity among Atlantic populations but some heterogeneity between Alboran population and Atlantic populations, mainly between the populations from Central Atlantic of Morocco with a significant difference.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1543/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'D\xe9partement de Biologie, Facult\xe9 des Sciences Rabat, Mohammed V University  Rabat', u'D\xe9partement de Biologie, Facult\xe9 des Sciences Rabat, Mohammed V University Rabat', u'Faculty of Fisheries Sciences, Hokkaido University', u'D\xe9partement des Ressources Halieutiques, Institut National de Recherche Halieutique (INRH)']]
[u'The impact of induced anxiety on affective response inhibition', ['Jessica Aylward', 'Vincent Valton', 'Anahit Mkrtchian', 'Niall Lally', 'Tarun Limbachya', 'Oliver J Robinson'], u'2015-11-30', u'Studying the effects of experimentally induced anxiety in healthy volunteers may increase our understanding of the mechanisms underpinning anxiety disorders. Prior work has shown that experimentally induced anxiety (via threat of unpredictable shock) improves accuracy at withholding a response on the Sustained Attention to Response Task (SART), and in separate studies improves accuracy to classify fearful faces, creating an affective bias. Integrating these findings, in this study participants (N=47) at a public science engagement event were recruited to explore the effects of experimentally induced anxiety on an affective version of the SART. On the basis of previous work, we hypothesised that we would see an increased accuracy at withholding a response to affectively congruent stimuli (i.e. increased accuracy at withholding a response to fearful \u201cno-go\u201d distractors) under threat of shock. Replicating previous findings, threat of shock slowed reaction time. However, contrary to predictions there was no evidence to suggest an interaction between induced anxiety and stimulus valence on accuracy. Indeed Bayesian analysis provided decisive evidence in favour of the null. We suggest that valence effects could emerge after processing durations longer than those allowed by the present task.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1542/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'University College London, Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience', u'Brunel University, College of Health and Life Sciences']]
[u'LC-MS method for determination of olmesartan in human plasma', ['Jacek Musijowski', 'Edyta Piorkowska', 'Katarzyna Bus - Kwasnik', 'Agnieszka Tycz', 'Piotr J. Rudzki'], u'2015-11-26', u'Olmesartan belongs to a class of drugs called angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs). It works by relaxing blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily and is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Olmesartan medoxomil is an ester prodrug that is hydrolysed during absorption from gastrointestinal tract to the active form olmesartan. Due to rapid metabolism determination of the concentration of the prodrug in plasma is impossible. Previous human pharmacokinetic studies indicated that olmesartan is the only metabolite of olmesartan medoxomil. The aim of the study was to develop a method for the determination of olmesartan in human plasma. The developed LC-MS method is linear within the range of 5.00-2500.00 ng/mL which is suitable for pharmacokinetic studies after administration of 40 mg olmesartan medoxomil single oral dose. The sample preparation procedure is fast and allows examination of large numbers of samples in a short time. The method was validated according to European Medicines Agency (EMA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) guidelines, in compliance with the principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). All of the validation parameters met acceptance criteria and the method was successfully applied in the pharmacokinetic study in humans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1540/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute', u'Faculty of Chemistry, University of Warsaw']]
[u'Influence of hydroxybosentan on determination of bosentan in human plasma', ['Edyta Gilant', 'Katarzyna Bus - Kwasnik', 'Izabela Domel', 'Micha  Kaza', 'Piotr J. Rudzki'], u'2015-11-26', u'Bosentan is a drug used in the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. Evaluation of bosentan pharmacokinetics is an important step of the drug development. The aim of our study was to evaluate bioanalytical method reliability by assessing the influence of metabolite on the determination of bosentan in human plasma. In human body, bosentan is converted to three metabolites. Hydroxybosentan is an only pharmacologically active metabolite and its maximum concentration in plasma reaches 5-8% of the bosentan\u2019s maximum concentration. Hydroxybosentan\u2019s elimination half-life was reported to be very similar to that of bosentan (5-6 h) or slightly greater (6-14 h). It was observed that times to reach the maximum concentrations are similar for both compounds. Combination of high-performance liquid chromatography with UV-Vis detection and liquid-liquid extraction enabled to was determine bosentan in human plasma in the range of 50-4000 ng\u2219mL-1. During the method validation, metabolite back-conversion was studied using human plasma samples spkied with hydroxybosentan to obtain concentration of 500 ng\xb7mL-1. Additionally, the influence of metabolite on extraction of bosentan and the internal standard was assessed. We found that there was no influence of metabolite on determination of bosentan in developed bioanalytical method. The method was validated according to European Medicines Agency (EMA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) guidelines, in compliance with the principles of Good Laboratory Practice (GLP). All of the validation parameters met acceptance criteria what confirmed method\u2019s reliability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1539/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute', u'Faculty of Chemistry, Technical University of Warsaw']]
[u'Validation of the electronic prescription as a method of measurement of treatment adherence in hypertension', ['Emilio Marquez-Contreras', 'Lourdes Lopez  Garcia-Ramos', 'Nieves Martell-Claros', 'Vicente F Gil-Guillen', 'Sara Marquez-Rivero', 'Elena Perez-Lopez', 'Maria Angeles Garrido-Lopez', 'Celia Farauste', 'Adriana Lopez-Pineda', 'Jose Joaquin Casado-Martinez', 'Concepcion Carratala-Munuera'], u'2015-11-26', u'Background. The diagnosis of non-adherence is complex and there are no completely reliable methods that can be used widely in daily practice. The aim of this study was to validate electronic prescriptions as a method of measuring treatment adherence in patients with mild-moderate hypertension.\nMethods. We conducted a prospective, longitudinal, multicenter study in primary care centers. The study involved 120 patients treated for hypertension and included in the electronic prescription program of the centers. Five visits were made: initial, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months. Adherence was measured using an electronic monitor [medication event monitoring system (MEMS)] and through the electronic prescription program. We calculated the adherence rate (AR) using the MEMS and the electronic prescriptions, with the Medication Possession Ratio (MPR). Adherent patients were considered to be those whose AR was 80-100%. To validate the electronic prescription, its data were compared to the pill count by MEMS (Method of certainty). Sensitivity, specificity, positive (PPV) and negative (NPV) predictive values, and positive (LR+) and negative (LR-) likelihood ratios were calculated. The Kappa concordance index and the area under the ROC curve were also determined.\nResults. The study was completed by 108 patients (mean age 61.06 years, SD 9.08). Adherence was 77.4% by MEMS (95% CI: 66.8-88%) and 80.4% (95% CI=70.3-90.5) by MPR. At 24 months the sensitivity was 87%, specificity 93.7%, PPV 80%, NPV 96.1%, LR+ 13.8 and LR- 0.1. The K was 0.782 and the AUC was 0.903 (95% CI: 0.817-0.989). Therapeutic complexity was associated with pharmacological non-adherence (OR=1.35, p<0.01).\nDiscussion. The electronic prescription was an excellent method to measure non-adherence in hypertensive patients included in this program for over two years. Therapeutic simplicity improved treatment adherence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1538/', ['Cardiology', 'Health Policy', 'Pharmacology', 'Legal Issues', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'La Orden Clinical Management Unit', u'Adoratrices Clinical Management Unit', u'University of San Carlos', u'Universidad Miguel Hern\xe1ndez de Elche']]
[u'Alien vs. Predator: Pathogens open niche space for opportunists, unless controlled by predators', ['Rory M Welsh', 'Stephanie M Rosales', 'Jesse R.R. Zaneveld', 'Jerome P Payet', 'Ryan McMinds', 'Steven L Hubbs', 'Rebecca L Vega Thurber'], u'2015-11-26', u'Coral microbiomes are known to play important roles in organismal health, response to environmental stress, and resistance to disease. Pathogens invading the coral microbiome encounter diverse assemblages of resident bacteria, ranging from defensive and metabolic symbionts to opportunistic bacteria that may turn harmful in compromised hosts. However, little is known about how these bacterial interactions influence the overall structure, stability, and function of the microbiome during the course of pathogen challenge. We sought to test how coral microbiome dynamics were affected by interactions between two of its members: Vibrio coralliilyticus, a known temperature-dependent coral pathogen, and Halobacteriovorax, a unique bacterial predator of Vibrio and other gram-negative bacteria. We challenged specimens of the important reef-building coral Montastraea cavernosa with Vibrio coralliilyticus pathogens in the presence or absence of Halobacteriovorax predators, and monitored microbial community dynamics with 16S rRNA gene time-series. In addition to its direct effects on corals, pathogen challenge reshaped coral microbiomes in ways that allowed for secondary blooms of opportunistic bacteria. As expected, Vibrio coralliilyticus addition increased the infiltration of Vibrio into coral tissues. This increase of Vibrios in coral tissue was accompanied by increased richness, and reduced stability (increased beta-diversity) of the rest of the microbiome, suggesting strong secondary effects of pathogen invasion on commensal and mutualistic coral bacteria. Moreover, after an initial increase in Vibrios, two opportunistic lineages (Rhodobacterales and Cytophagales) increased in coral tissues, suggesting that this pathogen opens niche space for opportunists. Based on the keystone role of predators in many ecosystems, we hypothesized that Halobacteriovorax predators might help protect corals by consuming gram-negative pathogens. In keeping with a protective role, Halobacteriovorax addition alone had only minor effects on the microbiome, and no infiltration of Halobacteriovorax into coral tissues was detected in amplicon libraries. Simultaneous challenge with both pathogen and predator eliminated detectable V. corallyticus infiltration into coral tissue samples, ameliorated changes to the rest of the coral microbiome, and prevented secondary blooms of opportunistic Rhodobacterales and Cytophagales. Thus, we show that primary infection by a coral pathogen is sufficient to cause increases in opportunists, as seen in correlational studies. These data further provide a proof-of-principle demonstration that, under certain circumstances, host-associated bacterial predators can mitigate the ability of pathogens to infiltrate host tissue, and stabilize the microbiome against complex secondary changes that favor growth of opportunistic lineages.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1537/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Microbiology, Oregon State University']]
[u'Does sadness impair color perception? Thorstenson et al.\u2019s plan to find out is flawed', ['Alex O Holcombe', 'Nicholas JL Brown', 'Patrick T Goodbourn', 'Alexander Etz', 'Sebastian Geukes'], u'2015-11-25', u'In their article reporting the results of two experiments, Thorstenson, Pazda, & Elliot (2015a) found evidence that perception of colors on the blue-yellow axis was impaired if the participants had watched a sad movie clip, relative to participants who watched clips designed to induce a happy or neutral mood. Subsequently, these authors retracted their article (Thorstenson, Pazda, & Elliot, 2015b), citing a mistake in their statistical analyses and a problem with the data in one of their experiments. Here, we discuss a number of other methodological problems with Thorstenson et al.\u2019s experimental design, and also demonstrate that the problems with the data go beyond what these authors reported. We conclude that repeating, with minor revision, one of the two experiments, as Thorstenson et al. (2015b) proposed, will not be sufficient to address the problems with this work.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1536/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology, University of Sydney', u'University Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen', u'Department of Psychology, University of Texas at Austin', u'Institut f\xfcr Psychologie, Westf\xe4lische Wilhelms-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnster']]
[u'Integrated microRNA, gene expression and transcription factors signature in papillary thyroid cancer with lymph node metastasis', ['Nurul-Syakima Ab Mutalib', 'Sri Noraima Othman', 'Azliana Mohamad Yusof', 'Shahrun Niza Abdullah Suhaimi', 'Rohaizak Muhammad', 'Rahman Jamal'], u'2015-11-25', u'Background: Papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC) is the commonest thyroid malignancy originating from the follicle cells in the thyroid. Despite a good overall prognosis, certain high-risk cases as in those with lymph node metastasis (LNM) have progressive disease and poorer prognosis. MicroRNAs are a class of non-protein-coding, 19-24 nucleotides single-stranded RNAs which regulate gene expression and these molecules have been shown to play a role in LNM. The integrated analysis of miRNAs and gene expression profiles together with transcription factors (TFs) has been shown to improve the identification of functional miRNA-target gene-TF relationships, providing a more complete view of molecular events underlying metastasis process. Objectives: We reanalyzed The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) datasets on PTC to identify differentially expressed miRNAs/genes in PTC patients with LNM-positive (LNM-P) versus lymph node negative (LNN) PTC patients and to investigate the miRNA-gene-TF regulatory circuit that regulate LNM in PTC. Results: PTC patients with LNM (PTC LNM-P) has significantly shorter disease-free survival rate compared to PTC patients without LNM (PTC LNN) (Log-rank Mantel Cox test, p = 0.0049). We identified 181 significantly differentially expressed miRNAs in PTC LNM-P versus PTC LNN; 110 were upregulated and 71 were downregulated. The five topmost deregulated miRNAs were hsa-miR-146b, hsa-miR-375, hsa-miR-31, hsa-miR-7-2 and hsa-miR-204. In addition, 395 miRNAs were differentially expressed between PTC LNM-P and normal thyroid while 400 miRNAs were differentially expressed between PTC LNN and normal thyroid. We found 4 significant enrichment pathways potentially involved in metastasis to the lymph nodes namely oxidative phosphorylation (OxPhos), cell adhesion molecules (CAMs), leukocyte transendothelial migration and cytokine-cytokine receptor interaction. OxPhos was the most significantly perturbed pathway (p = 4.70E-06) involving downregulation of 90 OxPhos-related genes. Significant interaction of hsa-miR-301b with HLF, HIF and REL/NFkB transcription factors were identified exclusively in PTC LNM-P versus PTC LNN. Conclusion: We found evidence of five miRNAs differentially expressed in PTC LNM-P. Alteration in OxPhos pathway could be the central event in metastasis to the lymph node in PTC. We postulate that hsa-miR-301b might be involved in regulating LNM in PTC via interactions with HLF, HIF and REL/NFkB. To the best of our knowledge, the roles of these TFs have been studied in PTC but the precise role of this miRNA with these TFs in LNM in PTC has not been investigated.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1535/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Oncology'], [u'UKM Medical Molecular Biology Institute, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia', u'Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia']]
[u'Textual analysis or natural language parsing? A software engineering perspective', ['Sebastiano Panichella'], u'2015-11-25', u'The problem of designing effective methodology to summarize, and analyze the amount of textual information produced by developers remains particularly challenging especially when the goal is to help developers in making better development/maintenance decisions. Moreover, contrasting results might be obtained depending on the communication channel being mined and the technique adopted for its analysis. In our work we investigate the usage of Natural Language Parsing (NLP) and Textual Analysis (TA) techniques to automatically classify development content. Results of our study highlight the superiority of NLP techniques over the traditional TA techniques when used to analyze the textual data produced in software development. We also show the benefits of NLP when used to enhance software engineering recommenders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1534/', ['Natural Language and Speech', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Informatics (IfI), University of Zurich']]
[u'Fuzzy based binary feature profiling for modus operandi analysis', ['Mahawaga Arachchige Pathum Chamikara', 'Akalanka Galappaththi', 'Roshan D Yapa', 'Ruwan D Nawarathna', 'Saluka Ranasinghe Kodituwakku', 'Jagath Gunatilake', 'Aththanapola Arachchilage Chathranee Anumitha Jayathilake', 'Liwan H Liyanage'], u'2015-11-25', u'It is a well-known fact that some criminals follow perpetual methods of operations, known as modus operandi (MO) which is commonly used to describe the habits in committing something especially in the context of criminal investigations. These modus operandi are then used in relating criminals to other crimes where the suspect has not yet been recognized. This paper presents a method which is focused on identifying the perpetual modus operandi of criminals by analyzing their previous convictions. The method involves in generating a feature matrix for a particular suspect based on the flow of events. Then, based on the feature matrix, two representative modus operandi are generated: complete modus operandi and dynamic modus operandi. These two representative modus operandi will be compared with the flow of events of the crime in order to investigate and relate a particular criminal. This comparison uses several operations to generate two other outputs: completeness probability and deviation probability. These two outcomes are used as inputs to a fuzzy inference system to generate a score value which is used in providing a measurement for the similarity between the suspect and the crime at hand. The method was evaluated using actual crime data and four other open data sets. Then ROC analysis was performed to justify the validity and the generalizability of the proposed method. In addition, comparison with five other classification algorithms showed that the proposed method performs competitively with other related methods.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1532/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'Postgraduate Institute of Science, University of Peradeniya', u'Faculty of Science, University of Peradeniya', u'School of Computing, Engineering and Mathematics, University of Western Sydney']]
[u'Examining perceptions of the usefulness and usability of a mobile-based system for pharmacogenomics clinical decision support: a mixed methods study', ['Kathrin Blagec', 'Katrina M Romagnoli', 'Richard D Boyce', 'Matthias Samwald'], u'2015-11-24', u"Background. Pharmacogenomic testing has the potential to improve the safety and efficacy of pharmacotherapy, but clinical application of pharmacogenetic knowledge has remained uncommon. Clinical decision support (CDS) systems could help overcome some of the barriers to clinical implementation. The aim of this study was to evaluate the perception and usability of a web- and mobile-enabled CDS system for pharmacogenetics-guided drug therapy \u2013 the Medication Safety Code (MSC) system \u2013 among potential users (i.e., physicians and pharmacists). Furthermore, this study sought to collect data on the practicability and comprehensibility of potential layouts of a proposed personalized pocket card that is intended to not only contain the machine-readable data for use with the MSC system but also human-readable data on the patient\u2019s pharmacogenomic profile. Methods. We deployed an emergent mixed methods design encompassing (1) qualitative interviews with pharmacists and pharmacy students, (2) a survey among pharmacogenomics experts that included both qualitative and quantitative elements and (3) a quantitative survey among physicians and pharmacists. The interviews followed a semi-structured guide including a hypothetical patient scenario that had to be solved by using the MSC system. The survey among pharmacogenomics experts focused on what information should be printed on the card and how this information should be arranged. Furthermore, the MSC system was evaluated based on two hypothetical patient scenarios and four follow-up questions on the perceived usability. The second survey assessed physicians\u2019 and pharmacists\u2019 attitude towards the MSC system. Results. In total, 101 physicians, pharmacists and PGx experts coming from various relevant fields evaluated the MSC system. Overall, the reaction to the MSC system was positive across all investigated parameters and among all user groups. The majority of participants were able to solve the patient scenarios based on the recommendations displayed on the MSC interface. A frequent request among participants was to provide specific listings of alternative drugs and concrete dosage instructions. Negligence of other patient-specific factors for choosing the right treatment such as renal function and co-medication was a common concern related to the MSC system, while data privacy and cost-benefit considerations emerged as the participants\u2019 major concerns regarding pharmacogenetic testing in general. The results of the card layout evaluation indicate that a gene-centered and tabulated presentation of the patient\u2019s pharmacogenomic profile is helpful and well-accepted. Conclusions. We found that the MSC system was well-received among the physicians and pharmacists included in this study. A personalized pocket card that lists a patient's metabolizer status along with critically affected drugs can alert physicians and pharmacists to the availability of essential therapy modifications.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1530/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Pharmacology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Center for Medical Statistics, Informatics, and Intelligent Systems, Medical University of Vienna', u'Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Exploring the psychometric properties of the English version of the Internet Addiction Test in the Pakistani population: a cross-sectional survey', ['Ahmed Waqas', 'Faisal Farooq', 'Anum Bhatti', 'Saamia Javed', 'Mahrukh Elahi Ghumman', 'Mohsin Raza', 'Spogmai Khan', 'Waqas Ahmad'], u'2015-11-24', u'Introduction: Despite growing concerns over pathological use of the Internet, studies based on validated psychometric instruments are still lacking in Pakistan. The present study aimed to examine the psychometric properties of Young\u2019s Internet Addiction Test (IAT) in a sample of the Pakistani population. We examined the validity, internal consistency, readability and floor and ceiling effects of IAT scores.Methods: This cross-sectional study was conducted at CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry, Lahore, Pakistan from 1 March 2015 to 30 May 2015. A total of 522 medical and dental students completed the questionnaire, which consisted of three sections: (a) demographics and percentage grades in annual examinations, (b) a categorical question to record the estimated number of hours spent on the Internet per day, and (c) the English version of the IAT. All data were analyzed in SPSS v. 20. Principal axis factor analysis was used to validate the factor structure of the IAT in our study sample. An alpha coefficient > .7 was sought in the reliability analysis. Histograms and the values of skewness and kurtosis were analyzed for floor and ceiling effects. In addition, readability of the IAT was assessed as the Flesch Reading Ease score and Flesch-Kincaid Grade level function. Results: A total of 522 medical and dental students participated in the survey. Most respondents were female medical students enrolled in preclinical years of their degree program. Median age (min-max) of the respondents was 20 years (17-25 years). A single-factor model for IAT score explained 33.71% of the variance, with a high alpha coefficient of .893. In addition, the IAT had good face and convergent validity and no floor and ceiling effects, and was judged easy to read by participants. Conclusion: The English version of the IAT showed good psychometric properties in a sample of Pakistani university students. A single-factor model for assessing internet addiction showed good reliability and was found suitable with our study sample.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1531/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry', u'Portland State University']]
[u'A crime data analysis framework with geographical information support for intelligence led policing', ['Mahawaga Arachchige Pathum Chamikara', 'Akalanka Galappaththi', 'Roshan D Yapa', 'Ruwan D Nawarathna', 'Saluka Ranasinghe Kodituwakku', 'Jagath Gunatilake', 'Liwan H Liyanage'], u'2015-11-24', u'The manual crime recording and investigation systems in police stations all around the world are generating piles of crime documents which make storage and retrieval of reliable crime information extremely difficult as well as inefficient. Furthermore, investigators of central authorities have to manually search through these documents and communicate between the relevant police stations to obtain required information. Eventually, delays in information flow between investigators of crime incidents cannot be avoided. Sri Lanka Police too have been facing the same set of issues over many years. To get rid of pilling of large number of documents annually in police stations, Sri Lanka Police is allowed to destroy the documents related to solved crimes which are older than five years. This may destroy not only "closed files", but also very valuable information that can be used in future crime investigations.To overcome this problem, this paper proposes a web-based framework with geographical information support which contains a centralized database for crime data storage and retrieval. Geographical capabilities of the framework support not only spatial analysis but also provide an efficient solution to current manual crime map generation. Our highly secured and user friendly framework follows the state of the art layered architecture which provides an optimized data model for fast access and easy analysis of crime data. The solution consists of an affluent set of data mining tools which are essential in any crime investigation process. Security of data is ensured with data encryption for sensitive information and by limiting access to the data through a role based access method. Further the data is only accessible through a virtual private network (VPN) connecting all the police stations and other relevant departments of the Police. The proposed framework was evaluated by conducting an experimental study and the results are promising.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1529/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Databases', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Postgraduate Institute of Science, University of Peradeniya', u'Faculty of Science, University of Peradeniya', u'School of Computing, Engineering and Mathematics, University of Western Sydney']]
[u'Extinctions and threats to avifaunas on oceanic islands: Tests of influences of human populations and the filter effect', ['Heather Zimbler-DeLorenzo', 'Bertram Zinner', 'Ronald J Scheibel', 'F. Stephen Dobson'], u'2015-11-24', u'Extinctions and threats of extinctions in avifaunas on oceanic islands appear to be influenced by several island characteristics and introduced mammalian predators. These predators may have caused a \u201cfilter effect\u201d; low numbers of threatened avian species on some islands might be due to high rates of past extinctions. Using path analysis, we examined these factors and the influence of human population size (as an indicator of human activity) on the number of species extinctions and threatened bird species on islands. Human population size had substantial influences on the number of extinctions (standardized partial regression coefficient \u03c1 = 0.315, N = 172, P = 0.0005) but not on the number of threatened species on oceanic islands (\u03c1 = -0.061, P = 0.43), independent of the number of introductions of predator species. The number of extinctions on islands produced a significant filter effect (viz., had a negative impact; \u03c1 = -0.186, P = 0.003) on the number of currently threatened species. The activities of human populations, including mammalian predators they introduced, have likely resulted in a greater number of bird extinctions on these islands, and producing a significant filter effect, wherein islands with larger human populations now have fewer threatened species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1528/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Auburn University', u'Department of Mathematics and Statistics, Auburn University', u'Centre d\u2019Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive, Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique']]
[u'Can macroalgae provide promising anti-tumoral compounds? A closer look at Cystoseira tamariscifolia as a source for antioxidant and anti-hepatocarcinoma compounds', ['Catarina Vizetto-Duarte', 'Luisa Custodio', 'Gerardo Acosta', 'Joao H G Lago', 'Thiago R Morais', 'Carolina Bruno de Sousa', 'Katkam N Gangadhar', 'Maria Joao Rodrigues', 'Hugo Pereira', 'Raquel T Lima', 'M. Helena Vasconcelos', 'Luisa Barreira', 'Amelia P Rauter', 'Fernando Albericio', 'Joao Varela'], u'2015-11-24', u'Marine organisms are a prolific source of drug leads in a variety of therapeutic areas. In the last few years, biomedical, pharmaceutical and nutraceutical industries have shown growing interest in novel compounds from marine organisms, including macroalgae. Cystoseira is a genus of Phaeophyceae (Fucales) macroalgae known to contain bioactive compounds. Organic extracts (hexane, diethyl ether, ethyl acetate and methanol extracts) from three Cystoseira species (C. humilis, C. tamariscifolia and C. usneoides) were evaluated for their total phenolic content, radical scavenging activity against DPPH and ABTS radicals, and antiproliferative activity against a human hepatocarcinoma cell line (HepG2 cells). C. tamariscifolia had the highest TPC and RSA. The hexane extract of C. tamariscifolia (CTH) had the highest cytotoxic activity (IC50=2.31 \xb5g/mL), and was further tested in four human tumor (cervical adenocarcinoma HeLa; gastric adenocarcinoma AGS; colorectal adenocarcinoma HCT-15; neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y), and two non-tumor (murine bone marrow stroma S17 and human umbilical vein endothelial HUVEC) cell lines in order to determine its selectivity. CTH strongly reduced viability of all tumor cell lines, especially of HepG2 cells. Cytotoxicity was particularly selective for the latter cells with a selectivity index = 12.6 as compared to non-tumor cells. Incubation with CTH led to a 2-fold decrease of HepG2 cell proliferation as shown by the BrdU incorporation assay. CTH-treated HepG2 cells presented also pro-apoptotic features, such as increased Annexin V/PI binding and dose-dependent morphological alterations in DAPI-stained cells. Moreover, it had a noticeable disaggregating effect on 3D multicellular tumor spheroids. Demethoxy cystoketal chromane, a derivative of the meroditerpenoid cystoketal, was identified as the active compound in CTH and was shown to display selective in vitro cytotoxicity towards HepG2 cells.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1527/', ['Biotechnology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'University of Algarve, Campus de Gambelas, Centre of Marine Sciences', u'Barcelona Science Park, Institute for Research in Biomedicine', u'Barcelona Science Park, CIBER-BNN, Networking Centre on Bioengineering, Biomaterials and Nanomedicine', u'Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology, Institute for Research Biomedicine of Barcelona', u'Federal University of Sao Paulo, Institute of Environmental, Chemical and Pharmaceutical Sciences', u'Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Instituto de Tecnologia Qu\xedmica e Biol\xf3gica', u'i3S - Instituto de Investiga\xe7\xe3o e Inova\xe7\xe3o em Sa\xfade, Universidade do Porto', u'Cancer Drug Resistance Group, IPATIMUP - Institute of Molecular Pathology and Immunology of the University of Porto', u'Department of Pathology and Oncology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto', u'Cancer Drug Resistance Group, i3S - Instituto de Investiga\xe7\xe3o e Inova\xe7\xe3o em Sa\xfade da Universidade do Porto', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Pharmacy of the University of Porto', u'Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Faculty of Sciences University of Lisbon, Center of Chemistry and Biochemistry', u'Department of Organic Chemistry, University of Barcelona']]
[u'Probable impact of age and hypoxia on proliferation and microRNA expression profile of bone marrow-derived human mesenchymal stem cells', ['Norlaily Mohd Ali', 'Lily Boo', 'Swee Keong Yeap', 'Huynh Ky', 'Dilan A Satharasinghe', 'Woan Charn Liew', 'Han Kiat Ong', 'Soon Keng Cheong', 'Tunku Kamarul'], u'2015-11-24', u'Decline in the therapeutic potential of bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) is often seen with older donors as compared to young. Although hypoxia is known as an approach to improve the therapeutic potential of MSC in term of cell proliferation and differentiation capacity, its effects on MSC from aged donors have not been well studied. To evaluate the influence of hypoxia on different age groups, MSC from young (<30 years) and aged (>60 years) donors were expanded under hypoxic (5% O2) and normal (20% O2) culture conditions. MSC from old donors exhibited a reduction in proliferation rate and differentiation potential together with the accumulation of senescence features compared to that of young donors. However, MSC cultured under hypoxic condition showed enhanced self-renewing and proliferation capacity in both age groups as compared to normal condition. Bioinformatic analysis of the gene ontology (GO) and KEGG pathway under hypoxic culture condition identified hypoxia-inducible miRNAs that were found to target transcriptional activity leading to enhanced cell proliferation, migration as well as decrease in growth arrest and apoptosis through the activation of multiple signaling pathways. Overall, differentially expressed miRNA provided additional information to describe the biological changes of young and aged MSCs expansion under hypoxic culture condition at the molecular level. Based on our findings, the therapeutic potential hierarchy of MSC according to donor\u2019s age group and culture conditions can be categorized in the following order: young (hypoxia)> young (normoxia) > old aged (hypoxia) > old aged (normoxia).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1526/', ['Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman', u'Institute of Bioscience, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Faculty of Biotechnology and Biomolecular Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Department of Agriculture Genetics and Breeding, College of Agriculture and Applied Biology, Cantho University', u'Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science, University of Peradeniya', u'Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman', u'Persiaran Cyberpoint Selatan, Cryocord Sdn Bhd', u'Tissue Engineering Group (TEG), National Orthopaedic Center of Excellence for Research and Learning (NOCERAL), Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Malaya']]
[u'Structural and evolutionary relationships among RuBisCOs inferred from their large and small subunits', ['Fu Xiang', 'Yuanping Fang', 'Jun Xiang'], u'2015-11-24', u'Ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) is the key enzyme to assimilate CO2 into the biosphere. The structural and evolutionary relationships among RuBisCOs were discussed at the domain level. The nonredundant sets for three superfamilies of RuBisCO, i.e. large subunit C-terminal domain (LSC), large subunit N-terminal domain (LSN) and small subunit domain (SS) were defined using QR factorization based on the structural alignment of the RuBisCO domains with QH as the similarity measure, respectively. The results suggest: (1) the core structures of LSC, LSN and SS are well conserved and homologies; (2) the LSC could have occurred naturally in both bacteria and Achaean kingdoms, and the carboxyl-terminal structure evolves increasingly complicated in both bacteria and Eukaryotae kingdoms; (3) the structural variations, such as coil structures at 67-82 positions of LSN and the \u03b2A-\u03b2B-loop of SS, could make attribution to the CO2/O2 specificity of RuBisCO from different species. Such findings provide insights on RuBisCO improvement.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1525/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Hubei Key Laboratory of Economic Forest Germplasm Improvement and Resources Comprehensive Utilization, Huanggang Normal Univeristy', u'Hubei Collaborative Innovation Center for the Characteristic Resources Exploitation of Dabie Mountains']]
[u'Checklist of botanical collections from San Dami\xe1n district (Huarochir\xed province, Lima department, Peru)', ['Eduardo Antonio Molinari-Novoa', 'Carlos E Sanchez Ocharan', 'Tatiana Giannina Anaya Araujo', 'Luis Fernando Mayta Anco', 'Jessica Natalia Carpio Lau', 'Miguel Enrique Mendoza Tincopa'], u'2015-11-24', u'A list with the names of miscellaneous botanical collections made by the authors in San Dami\xe1n district (Huarochir\xed province, Lima department), in Central Peru, is provided. Most reported species are rosids, and will be thoroughly treated later. We report more than fifty records for the general flora of the place, including asterids, rosids, grasses and lichens. The present work is a support document for the License thesis of the first author, where further explanations and insights are to be provided.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1523/', ['Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'\u201cAugusto Weberbauer\u201d Herbarium (MOL), Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina', u'Academic Department of Biology, Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina', u'Biological and Agrarian Sciences Faculty, Universidad Nacional de San Agustin', u'Applied Botany Laboratory, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia', u'\u201cCarlos Vidal Layseca\u201d Faculty, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia']]
[u'The effect of agmatine on trichothecene type B and zearalenone production in  Fusarium graminearum,  F. culmorum  and  F. poae', ['Matias Pasquali', 'Emmanuelle Cocco', 'Cedric Guignard', 'Lucien Hoffmann'], u'2015-11-24', u'Agmatine and other putrescines are known strong inducers of deoxynivalenol (DON) production in Fusarium graminearum. Other important cereal species produce DON and/or other trichothecene type B toxins (3 acetylated DON, 15 Acetylated DON, Fusarenon-X, Nivalenol) such as F. culmorum and F. poae. In order to verify if the mechanism of regulation of trichothecenes type B induction by agmatine is shared by different species of Fusarium, we tested the hypothesis on 19 strains belonging to 3 Fusarium species (F. graminearum, F. culmorum, F. poae) with diverse genetic chemotypes (3ADON, 15ADON, NIV) by measuring trichothecene B toxins such as DON, NIV, Fusarenon-X, 3ADON and 15ADON. Moreover we also tested whether other toxins like zearalenone were also boosted by agmatine. The trichothecene type B boosting effect was observed in the majority of strains used (13 over 19) in all the three species. Representative strains from all the three genetic chemotypes were able to boost toxin production after agmatine treatment. We identified strains not responding to the agmatine stimulus which may contribute to deciphering the regulatory mechanisms that link toxin production to agmatine (and more in general polyamines).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1522/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Mycology'], [u'Department  of Environmental Research and Innovation, Luxembourg Institute of Science and Technology (LIST)']]
[u'An energetics-based honeybee nectar-foraging model used to assess the potential for landscape-level pesticide exposure dilution', ['Johannes M Baveco', 'Andreas Focks', 'Dick Belgers', 'Jozef JM van der Steen', 'Jos JTI Boesten', 'Ivo Roessink'], u'2015-11-19', u'Estimating the exposure of honeybees to pesticides on a landscape scale requires models of their spatial foraging behaviour. For this purpose, we developed a mechanistic, energetics-based model for a single day of nectar foraging in complex landscape mosaics. The hive population was assumed to select the resource patch with highest net energetic efficiency in perfect knowledge of its environment. During the day the optimal patch could change, due to resource depletion or related to the characteristics of the resource (i.e., the period flowers were open and provided nectar). By quantifying foraging costs and yield in terms of energy, we accounted for the impact of field distance and size, the occurrence of resource depletion and the characteristics of the resource type (crops and wild flowers), like seasonal and diurnal patterns in availability.From the model we derived simple rules for resource patch selection, e.g., for landscapes with mass-flowering crops, the net energetic efficiency would be proportional to the ratio of the energetic content of the nectar of the crop divided by distance of crop field to the hive. Also, we determined maximum distances at which resources like oilseed rape and clover could still be energetically attractive.We used the model to assess the potential for pesticide exposure dilution in landscapes of different composition and complexity. Dilution implied a lower average concentration in nectar arriving at the hive, resulting from foraging effort being diverted away from treated fields. Applying the model for all possible hive locations in a landscape, landscape-specific distributions of dilution values were obtained.For a case study area for which detailed spatial data were available, we tested three scenarios that were expected to lead to exposure dilution: the presence of i) equally attractive crop fields in the neighbourhood of a treated field, ii) highly attractive flowers strips of different widths at the edges of treated fields (off-crop in-field resources), and iii) highly attractive resources on off-field (semi-natural) habitats. The results indicated significant dilution at landscape scale only from flowers strips of more than 5 m wide and off-field habitats. On an area-base, flowers strips were approximately 10 times as effective as off-field habitats, the main reason being that the flowers strips had an optimal location, always at the edges of treated fields.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1519/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Alterra, Wageningen University and Research Center', u'Plant Research International, Wageningen University and Research Center']]
[u'Project report: intelligent semantic oriented agent based Search', ['Zeeshan Ahmed'], u'2015-11-19', u'Product Data Management (PDM) produced desktop and web based systems to maintain the organizational technical and managerial data to increase the quality of products by improving the processes of development, business process flows, change management, product structure management, project tracking and resource planning. Though PDM is heavily benefiting industry but PDM community is facing some serious unresolved issues in PDM System development. i.e., unfriendly graphical user interfaces and unintelligent search. PDM Systems offer different many services and functionalities at a time but the graphical user interfaces of most of the PDM Systems are not designed in a way that a user (especially a new user) can easily learn and use them. Moreover, PDM Systems contain and manage heavy amount of data but the search mechanism of most of the PDM System is not intelligent which can process user\u2019s structured or unstructured natural language based queries to extract desired information. Targeting above discussed two serious PDM based issues a thorough research is conducted in fields of Product Data Management (PDM), Human Machine Interfaces (HMI) and Semantic Web (SW). Concerning PDM, conducted research discusses PDM desktop and web based systems, PDM system development guidelines and some existing PDM Systems. Concerning HMI, conducted research provide information about HMI Designing including Ideologies, Principles, Patterns, Design Guidelines, Basic Design Goals, Problems and Rich Internet Applications (RIA) for Web based HMI Development. Concerning SW, conducted research provides information about Web based information modeling and processing, Ontologies and semantic oriented information modeling based approaches. Using conducted research based information and keeping some existing solutions toward targeted PDM community\u2019s issues in mind a semantic oriented, information processing and intelligent graphical user interface based solution is proposed. i.e., Intelligent Semantic Oriented Agent based Search (I-SOAS). Describing the proposition in detail the main concept, implementation designs and developed prototype of I-SOAS is discussed in this dissertation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1518/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Databases', 'Natural Language and Speech', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Technische Universit\xe4t Wien']]
[u'Tolerance-based interaction: A new model targeting opinion formation and diffusion in social networks', ['Alexandru Topirceanu', 'Mihai Udrescu', 'Mircea Vladutiu', 'Radu Marculescu'], u'2015-11-19', u"One of the main motivations behind social network analysis is the quest for understanding opinion formation and diffusion. Previous models have limitations, as they typically assume opinion interaction mechanisms based on thresholds which are either fixed or evolve according to a random process that is external to the social agent. Indeed, our empirical analysis on large real-world datasets such as Twitter, Meme Tracker, and Yelp, uncovers previously unaccounted for dynamic phenomena at population-level, namely the existence of distinct opinion formation phases and social balancing. We also reveal that a phase transition from an erratic behavior to social balancing can be triggered by network topology and by the ratio of opinion sources. Consequently, in order to build a model that properly accounts for these phenomena, we propose a new (individual-level) opinion interaction model based on tolerance. As opposed to the existing opinion interaction models, the new tolerance model assumes that individual's inner willingness to accept new opinions evolves over time according to basic human traits. Finally, by employing discrete event simulation on diverse social network topologies, we validate our opinion interaction model and show that, although the network size and opinion source ratio are important, the phase transition to social balancing is mainly fostered by the democratic structure of the small-world topology.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1322/', ['Network Science and Online Social Networks', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Social Computing'], [u'Department of Computer and Software Engineering, Politehnica University Timisoara', u'Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Carnegie Mellon University']]
[u'Fully-automated identification of fish species based on otolith contour: using short-time Fourier transform and discriminant analysis (STFT-DA)', ['Nima Salimi', 'Kar Hoe Loh', 'Sarinder Kaur Dhillon', 'Ving Ching Chong'], u'2015-11-19', u'Background. Fish species may be identified based on their unique otolith shape or contour. Several pattern recognition methods have been proposed to classify fish species through morphological features of the otolith contours. However, there has been no fully-automated species identification model with the accuracy higher than 80%. The purpose of the current study is to develop a fully-automated model, based on the otolith contours, to identify the fish species with the high classification accuracy. Methods. Images of the right sagittal otoliths of 14 fish species from three families namely Sciaenidae, Ariidae, and Engraulidae were used to develop the proposed identification model. Short-time Fourier transform (STFT) was used, for the first time in the area of otolith shape analysis, to extract important features of the otolith contours. Discriminant Analysis (DA), as a classification technique, was used to train and test the model based on the extracted features. Results. Performance of the model was demonstrated using species from three families separately, as well as all species combined. Overall classification accuracy of the model was greater than 90% for all cases. In addition, effects of STFT variables on the performance of the identification model were explored in this study. Conclusions. Short-time Fourier transform could determine important features of the otolith outlines. The fully-automated model proposed in this study (STFT-DA) could predict species of an unknown specimen with acceptable identification accuracy. The current model has flexibility to be used for more species and families in future studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1517/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Marine Biology', 'Taxonomy', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Biological Sciences, University of Malaya', u'Institute of Ocean & Earth Sciences, University of Malaya']]
[u'Disruption of de novo purine biosynthesis in Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf0-1 leads to reduced biofilm formation and a reduction in cell size of surface-attached but not planktonic cells', ['Shiro Yoshioka', 'Peter D Newell'], u'2015-11-19', u'Pseudomonas fluorescens Pf0-1 is one of the model organisms for biofilm research. Our previous transposon mutagenesis study suggested a requirement for the de novo purine nucleotide biosynthesis pathway for biofilm formation by this organism. This study was performed to verify that observation and investigate the basis for the defects in biofilm formation shown by purine biosynthesis mutants. Constructing deletion mutations in 8 genes in this pathway, we found that they all showed reductions in biofilm formation that could be partly or completely restored by nucleotide supplementation or genetic complementation. We demonstrated that, despite a reduction in biofilm formation, more viable mutant cells were recovered from the surface-attached population than from the planktonic phase under conditions of purine deprivation. Analyses using scanning electron microscopy revealed that the surface-attached mutant cells were 25~30% shorter in length than WT, which partly explains the reduced biomass in the mutant biofilms. The laser diffraction particle analyses confirmed this finding, and further indicated that the WT biofilm cells were smaller than their planktonic counterparts. The defects in biofilm formation and reductions in cell size shown by the mutants were fully recovered upon adenine or hypoxanthine supplementation, indicating that the purine shortages caused reductions in cell size. Our results are consistent with surface attachment serving as a survival strategy during nutrient deprivation, and indicate that changes in the cell size may be a natural response of P. fluorescens to growth on a surface. Finally, cell sizes in WT biofilms became slightly smaller in the presence of exogenous adenine than in its absence. Our findings suggest that purine nucleotides or related metabolites may influence the regulation of cell size in this bacterium.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1307/', ['Biochemistry', 'Microbiology'], [u'Life and Coordination-Complex Molecular Science, Institute for Molecular Science, National Institutes of Natural Sciences', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Oswego State University of New York']]
[u'A comparison between risk assessments methods: assessing five species of cloud forest rodents in Mexico', ['Rafael S Ramirez', 'Esther Quintero'], u'2015-11-19', u'Background. Red Lists have been traditionally used as the instruments to guide conservation strategies to avoid extinctions. There is little objection to the idea that categorizing species according to their risk of extinction is a good way to prioritize and implement conservation actions; however, there is little consensus in the best way to do this categorization, and different countries have developed different methods according to their specific needs. The scope of this paper is to contrast the Mexican Risk of Extinction Assessment Method (MER) and the one used by the IUCN Red List, and test how simple, objective and transparent are them. Methods. In order to compare the we performed a search within IUCN\xb4s data base to find species ranked as critically endangered which have not been assessed by the MER. We picked 5 species from the rodent genus Habromys and performed a literature review to assess them through the MER guidelines; we then compared the outcomes with UICN Red List. Results. The five assessed species of cloud forest rodents yield equivalent results through both the MER and IUCN assessments; however, the information asked for by the MER was scant for all the species, and we argue that the results of the assessments are thus not entirely objectives. Moreover, we found that the MER is not a simple method to use due to ambiguities of the criteria. Discussion. The aim of risk assessments is to clearly define the conservation status of a given species, displayed in a simple, transparent, objective, way, which can be relevant in terms of scope and impact on conservation actions. Unfortunately the MER does not fulfil all these requirements, potentially compromising conservation actions. As a result, we propose that it is time reevaluate the current version of the Mexican Risk of Extinction Assessment Method.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1437/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Subcoordinaci\xf3n de Especies Prioritarias, Direcci\xf3n General de An\xe1lisis y Prioridades, Comisi\xf3n Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad']]
[u'Software development: do good manners matter?', ['Giuseppe Destefanis', 'Marco Ortu', 'Steve Counsell', 'Michele Marchesi', 'Roberto Tonelli'], u'2015-11-17', u'A successful software project is the result of a complex process involving, above all, people. Developers are the key factors for the success of a software development process, not merely as executors of tasks, but as protagonists and core of the whole development process. This paper investigates social aspects among developers working on software projects developed with the support of Agile tools. We studied 22 open source software projects developed using the Agile board of the JIRA repository. All comments committed by developers involved in the projects were analyzed and we explored whether the politeness of comments affected the number of developers involved and the time required to fix any given issue. Our results showed that the level of politeness in the communication process among developers does have an effect on the time required to fix issues and, in the majority of the analysed projects, it had a positive correlation with attractiveness of the project to both active and potential developers. The more polite developers were, the less time it took to fix an issue. In the majority of the analysed cases, the more developers wanted to be part of a project, the more they were willing to continue working on the project over time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1515/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computer Science, Brunel University', u'Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Cagliari']]
[u'Low-frequency, low-magnitude vibrations (LFLM) enhances chondrogenic differentiation potential of human adipose derived mesenchymal stromal stem cells (hASCs)', ['Krzysztof Marycz', 'Daniel Lewandowski', 'Krzysztof A Tomaszewski', 'Brandon Michael Henry', 'Edward B Golec', 'Monika Maredziak'], u'2015-11-17', u'The aim of this study was to evaluate if low-frequency, low-magnitude vibrations (LFLM) could enhance chondrogenic differentiation potential of human adipose derived mesenchymal stem cells (hASCs) with simultaneous inhibition of their adipogenic properties for biomedical purposes. We developed a prototype device that induces low-magnitude (0.3 g) low-frequency vibrations with the following frequencies: 25, 35 and 45 Hz. Afterwards, we used human adipose derived mesenchymal stem cell (hASCS), to investigate their cellular response to the mechanical signals. We have also evaluated hASCs morphological and proliferative activity changes in response to each frequency. Induction of chondrogenesis in hASCs, under the influence of a 35 Hz signal leads to most effective and stable cartilaginous tissue formation through highest secretion of Bone Morphogenetic Protein 2 (BMP-2), and Collagen type II, with low concentration of Collagen type I. These results correlated well with appropriate gene expression level. Simultaneously, we observed significant up-regulation of \u03b13, \u03b14, \u03b21 and \u03b23 integrins in chondroblast progenitor cells treated with 35Hz vibrations, as well as Sox-9. Interestingly, we noticed that application of 35 Hz frequencies significantly inhibited adipogenesis of hASCs. The obtained results suggest that application of LFLM vibrations together with stem cell therapy might be a promising tool in cartilage regeneration.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1514/', ['Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Orthopedics', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Faculty of Biology, University of Environmental and Life Sciences', u'Wroclaw Research Centre EIT +', u'Institute of Materials Science and Applied Mechanics, University of Technology', u'Department of Anatomy, Jagiellonian University Medical College', u'Department of Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, 5th Military Clinical Hospital and Polyclinic', u'Faculty of Motor Rehabilitation, Bronislaw Czech University School of Physical Education', u'Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Department of Animal Physiology and Biostructure, University of Environmental and Life Sciences']]
[u'Impact of demographics on human gut microbial diversity in a US Midwest population', ['Jun Chen', 'Euijung Ryu', 'Matthew Hathcock', 'Karla Ballman', 'Nicholas Chia', 'Janet E Olson', 'Heidi Nelson'], u'2015-11-17', u'The clinical utility of microbiome biomarkers depends on the reliable and reproducible nature of comparative results. Underappreciation of the variation associated with common demographic, health, and behavioral factors may confound associations of interest and generate false positives. Here, we present the Midwestern Reference Panel (MWRP), a resource for comparative gut microbiome studies conducted in the Midwestern United States. We analyzed the relationships between demographic and health behavior\u2013related factors and the microbiota in this cohort, and estimated their effect sizes. Most variables investigated were associated with the gut microbiota. Specifically, body mass index (BMI), race, sex, and alcohol use were significantly associated with microbial \u03b2-diversity (P < 0.05, unweighted UniFrac). BMI, race and alcohol use were also significantly associated with microbial \u03b1-diversity (P < 0.05, species richness). Tobacco use showed a trend toward association with the microbiota (P < 0.1, unweighted UniFrac). The effect sizes of the associations, as quantified by adjusted R2 values based on unweighted UniFrac distances, were small (< 1% for all variables), indicating that these factors explain only a small percentage of overall microbiota variability. Nevertheless, the significant associations between these variables and the gut microbiota suggest that they could still be potential confounders in comparative studies and that controlling for these variables in study design, which is the main objective of the MWRP, is important for increasing reproducibility in comparative microbiome studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1512/', ['Microbiology', 'Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic', u'Microbiome Program, Center for Individualized Medicine, Mayo Clinic', u'Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Weill Medical College of Cornell University', u'Department of Surgery, Mayo Clinic', u'Department of Physiology and Biomedical Engineering, Mayo Clinic', u'Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic']]
[u'De novo clustering methods out-perform reference-based methods for assigning 16S rRNA gene sequences to operational taxonomic units', ['Sarah L Westcott', 'Patrick Schloss'], u'2015-11-17', u'Background. 16S rRNA gene sequences are routinely assigned to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that are then used to analyze complex microbial communities. A number of methods have been employed to carry out the assignment of 16S rRNA gene sequences to OTUs leading to confusion over which method is optimal. A recent study suggested that a clustering method should be selected based on its ability to generate stable OTU assignments that do not change as additional sequences are added to the dataset. In contrast, we contend that the quality of the OTU assignments, the ability of the method to properly represent the distances between the sequences, is more important.Methods. Our analysis implemented six de novo clustering algorithms including the single linkage, complete linkage, average linkage, abundance-based greedy clustering, distance-based greedy clustering, and Swarm and the open and closed-reference methods. Using two previously published datasets we used the Matthew\u2019s Correlation Coefficient (MCC) to assess the stability and quality of OTU assignments.Results. The stability of OTU assignments did not reflect the quality of the assignments. Depending on the dataset being analyzed, the average linkage and the distance and abundance-based greedy clustering methods generated OTUs that were more likely to represent the actual distances between sequences than the open and closed-reference methods. We also demonstrated that for the greedy algorithms VSEARCH produced assignments that were comparable to those produced by USEARCH making VSEARCH a viable free and open source alternative to USEARCH. Further interrogation of the reference-based methods indicated that when USEARCH or VSEARCH were used to identify the closest reference, the OTU assignments were sensitive to the order of the reference sequences because the reference sequences can be identical over the region being considered. More troubling was the observation that while both USEARCH and VSEARCH have a high level of sensitivity to detect reference sequences, the specificity of those matches was poor relative to the true best match.Discussion. Our analysis calls into question the quality and stability of OTU assignments generated by the open and closed-reference methods as implemented in current version of QIIME. This study demonstrates that de novo methods are the optimal method of assigning sequences into OTUs and that the quality of these assignments needs to be assessed for multiple methods to identify the optimal clustering method for a particular dataset.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1511/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor']]
[u'Analgesic efficacy and associated plasma concentration of tramadol and O-desmethyltramadol following oral administration post ovariohysterectomy in dogs', ['Elizabeth M Goudie-DeAngelis', 'Kerry J Woodhouse'], u'2015-11-17', u'Tramadol is used in both human and veterinary medicine to treat postoperative pain. The purpose of this study was to evaluate tramadol as a sole postoperative analgesic and to compare drug plasma concentration to clinical pain score. A high or low dose of tramadol was randomly assigned and administered to 14 mixed breed female dogs after ovariohysterectomy. The Short-Form of the Glasgow Composite Measure Pain Scale was used for pain evaluation post-operatively. Plasma was collected for evaluation of tramadol and O-desmethyltramadol concentrations. The effect of weight and dose on pain scores as well as how pain score correlated with plasma concentration of tramadol and O-desmethyltramadol was evaluated. A significant difference in pain score was noted between doses when weight classes were pooled. The plasma concentrations did not correlate with pain score. Based on our results, the use of tramadol as a sole analgesic agent provides inadequate postoperative pain control.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1510/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Pharmacology', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Minnesota', u'Royal Dick School of Veterinary Medicine, University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Pest suppression by ant biodiversity is modified by pest biodiversity', ['David J Gonthier', 'Ryan Kuesel', 'Ivette Perfecto'], u'2015-11-17', u'Agroecosystems are often complex ecosystems with diverse food webs. Changes in food web complexity may have important context-dependent consequences for pest control strategies. The success of predator introductions to suppress pests may depend on the diversity of pests. For crops with diverse pest assemblages, it is hypothesized that diverse predator communities are needed to suppress diverse pest assemblages below damaging levels. In this study, we compare the ability of ant predator monocultures and polycultures to suppress single- and diverse- (three species) pest assemblages in a coffee foodweb. We use a factorial experiment that compared treatments of predator and pest diversity to understand the impact of pest diversity on multiple predator effects. We show that predator polycultures enhanced pest risk relative to predator monocultures significantly more in the diverse-pest treatment relative to in the single-pest treatments for two of three pest species. Further, we show that pest diversity significantly reduced pest risk in all predator treatments except for the predator polyculture treatment. These results suggest that pest diversity may reduce the efficiency of single predator species at suppressing pest damage, but do not limit multiple predator species. This in turn leads to stronger effects of predator diversity with greater pest diversity. These results highlight the need to consider foodweb complexity, such as pest diversity, when designing and implementing biology control programs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1509/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, University of California, Berkeley', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor', u'School of Natural Resources and Environment, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor']]
[u'May arsenic pollution contribute to limiting Artemia franciscana invasion in southern Spain?', ['Marta I Sanchez', 'Cathleen Petit', 'Monica Martinez-Haro', 'Mark A Taggart', 'Andy J Green'], u'2015-11-17', u'Limited information exists regarding complex interactions between biological invasions, pollution, and climate change. Most studies indicate that pollution tends to favor invasive species. Here, we provide evidence that arsenic (As) pollution may contribute to limit the invasion of the exotic brine shrimp Artemia franciscana. We tested As toxicity in natural populations of Artemia parthenogenetica (native) and A. franciscana from high and low As contaminated environments in southern Spain, under current temperature conditions and as per a future climate scenario (i.e., an increase of 4\xbaC). Acute toxicity was estimated on the basis of the median lethal concentration (at 24h), and chronic toxicity (at 26 days) was evaluated by measuring Artemia survival and growth under sublethal exposures. At 25\xbaC native A. parthenogenetica from the highly polluted Odiel and Tinto estuary was much more resistant to acute As stress (LC50-24h, 24.67 mg L-1) than A. franciscana (15.78 mg L-1) and A. parthenogenetica populations from unpolluted sites (12.04 mg L-1) - suggesting that local adaptation to polluted conditions may occur. At 29\xbaC, resistance of A. parthenogenetica from Odiel decreased significantly, and there were no statistical differences in sensitivity between the three species/populations, suggesting that climate change may enhance the probability of invasion. Resistance increased with developmental stage from nauplii to adults, and was extremely high in cysts which still hatched at As concentrations of up to 6400mg L-1. Under sublethal chronic exposure A. franciscana performed better (survival and growth) than A. parthenogenetica, and both species experienced a faster growth when exposed, compared with unexposed (control) individuals, probably due to the hormesis. We discuss the ecological implications of our results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1508/', ['Biodiversity', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Wetland Ecology, Do\xf1ana Biological Station, CSIC', u'Universit\xe9 Pierre et Marie Curie  (Paris VI)', u'Department of Life Sciences, MARE, University of Coimbra', u'Environmental Contamination and Ecological Health, Environmental Research Institute, University of the Highlands and Islands', u'Wetland Ecology, Do\xf1ana Biological Station, CSIC']]
[u'NaIO4/Br- as a mild system for the oxidation of 1-methyl-anthra-9,10-quinones', ['Marcin Cybulski', 'Adam Formela', 'Katarzyna Sidoryk', 'Olga Michalak', 'Anna Rosa', 'Katarzyna Mroz', 'Wioleta Maruszak'], u'2015-11-14', u'One of the anthraquinone classes comprises compounds with a carbonyl group. These natural or synthetic anthraquinones find their application as building blocks in the synthesis of the compounds with a biological activity. Recently, 4-substituted anthra-9,10-quinone-1-carboxylic acids (2) have been used as key intermediates in the synthesis of patented compounds (3) with anticancer activity against multidrug resistant cell lines. Although 2,7-dihydro-3H-dibenz[de,h]cinnolin-3,7-diones (3) were successfully synthetized in a small laboratory scale, several problems were observed during the preparation of their acid intermediates (2) in a multi-gram scale. The known methods for the preparation of 2 are based on the oxidation of the methyl group in anthra-9,10-quinones (1). The most common are: the oxidation with the diluted nitric acid under high pressure in a sealed tube at the temperature of 195-220 oC, the oxidation in nitrobenzene by passing chlorine gas through the reaction mixture at the temperature of 160-170 oC or in a presence of the fuming sulphuric acid. The mentioned methods require aggressive reagents and specific reaction conditions including high pressure and temperature. Thus, there was a need to find a new efficient, cost-effective and reproducible synthetic method of preparation of 2. While searching literature it was found that the direct oxidation of alkylarenes mediated by the sodium periodate/lithium bromide combination produces benzyl acetates throughout benzyl bromides in the acetic acid, or benzylic acids in the diluted inorganic acid. Based on these results we examined a variety of reaction conditions with or without the bromine source and the oxidizing anion. As a result, a novel procedure for the preparation of highly pure 4-substituted anthra-9,10-quinone-1-carboxylic acids (HPLC > 99.5%) using oxidizing anion/ brominating reagent system was developed. It enabled 2 isolation by the simple filtration of the reaction mixture and was applied in the scale-up of 2,7-dihydro-3H-dibenz[de,h]cinnolin-3,7-dione derivatives.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1505/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Oncology'], [u'R&D Analytical Chemistry Department, Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'A platform for crowdsourcing the creation of representative, accurate landcover maps', ['Lyndon Estes', 'Dennis McRitchie', 'Jonathan Choi', 'Stephanie R Debats', 'Tom Evans', 'William Guthe', 'Dee Luo', 'Gabrielle Ragazzo', 'Reka Zempleni', 'Kelly Caylor'], u'2015-11-14', u'Accurate landcover maps are fundamental to understanding socio-economic and environmental patterns and processes, but existing datasets contain substantial errors. Crowdsourcing map creation may substantially improve accuracy, particularly for discrete cover types, but the quality and representativeness of crowdsourced data is hard to verify. We present an open-sourced platform, DIYlandcover, that serves representative samples of high resolution imagery to an online job market, where workers delineate individual landcover features of interest. Worker mapping skill is frequently assessed, providing estimates of overall map accuracy and a basis for performance-based payments. A trial of DIYlandcover showed that novice workers delineated South African cropland with 91% accuracy, exceeding the accuracy of current generation global landcover products, while capturing important geometric data. A scaling-up assessment suggests the possibility of developing an Africa-wide vector-based dataset of croplands for $2-3 million within 1.2-3.8 years. DIYlandcover can be readily adapted to map other discrete cover types.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1030/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Woodrow Wilson School, Princeton University', u'Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Princeton University', u'Computational Science and Engineering Support, Office of Information Technology, Princeton University', u'Department of Geography, Indiana University']]
[u'Myiarchus flycatchers are the primary seed dispersers of Bursera longipes in a Mexican dry forest: An overlooked coevolutionary process?', ['R. Carlos Almazan-Nunez', 'Luis E. Eguiarte', 'Maria del Coro Arizmendi', 'Pablo Corcuera'], u'2015-11-14', u'We evaluated the seed dispersal of Bursera longipes by birds along a successional gradient of tropical dry forest (TDF) in southwestern Mexico. B. longipes is an endemic tree to the TDF in the Balsas basin. The relative abundance of frugivorous birds, their frequency of visits to B. longipes and the number of removed fruits were recorded at three study sites with different stages of forest succession (early, intermediate and mature) characterized by distinct floristic and structural elements. Flycatchers of the Myiarchus and Tyrannus genera removed the majority of fruits at each site. Overall, visits to B. longipes were less frequent at the early successional site. Birds that function as legitimate dispersers by consuming whole seeds and regurgitating or defecating intact seeds in the process also remove the pseudoaril from seeds, thereby facilitating the germination process. The highest germination percentages were recorded for seeds that passed through the digestive tract of two migratory flycatchers: M. cinerascens and M. nutingii. Perch plants, mainly composed of legumes (e.g., Eysenhardtia polystachya, Acacia cochliacantha, Calliandra eryophylla, Mimosa polyantha), serve also as nurse plants since the number of young individuals recruited from B. longipes was higher under these than expected by chance. This study shows that Myiarchus flycatchers are the most efficient seed dispersers of B. longipes across all successional stages. This suggests a close mutualistic relationship derived from adaptive processes and local specializations throughout the distribution of both taxa, as supported by the geographic mosaic theory of coevolution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1507/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Laboratorio Integral de Fauna Silvestre, Unidad Acad\xe9mica de Ciencias Qu\xedmico Biol\xf3gicas, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Guerrero', u'Laboratorio de Evoluci\xf3n Molecular y Experimental, Departamento de Ecolog\xeda Evolutiva, Instituto de Ecolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Laboratorio de Ecolog\xeda, Unidad de Biotecnolog\xeda y Prototipos, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Departmento de Biolog\xeda, Universidad Aut\xf3noma Metropolitana-Iztapalapa']]
[u'Frequency components with negative resistance for intellectual measurement systems', ['Roman V Krynochkin'], u'2015-11-14', u'The aim of the given paper is a critical analysis of the prospects of further development of the frequency components with negative resistance. The possible and most promising areas of the development of new and improvement of existing frequency components in various technical fields, such as measurement of non-electrical and electrical parameters, the creation of computer systems and components of radio circuits, are shown.The most promising components, the development of which probably has a substantial interest for further improvement of technical and economic parameters of the engineering equipment, is given in a separate group.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1506/', ['Computer Aided Design', 'Computer Architecture', 'Embedded Computing', 'Emerging Technologies', 'Real-Time and Embedded Systems'], [u'Department of Radio engineering, Vinnytsia National Technical University']]
[u'Actively restored ecosystems as a refuge for biological diversity: evidence from a marine foundational species', ['Jonathan Lefcheck', 'Scott R Marion', 'Robert J Orth'], u'2015-11-14', u'As nearshore ecosystems are increasingly degraded by human activities, active restoration is a critical strategy in ensuring the continued provision of goods and services by coastal habitats. After being absent for nearly six decades, over 1800 ha of the foundational species eelgrass (Zostera marina L.) has been successfully reestablished in the coastal bays of the mid-western Atlantic, USA, but nothing is known about the recovery of associated animal communities. Here, we determine the patterns and drivers of functional recovery in epifaunal invertebrates associated with the restored eelgrass habitat from 2001-2013. After less than a decade, the invertebrate community in the restored bed was richer, more even, and exhibited greater variation in functional traits than a nearby reference bed. Analysis of a suite of environmental and physical variables using random forests revealed these differences were primarily due to the increasing area and density of eelgrass directly attributable to ongoing restoration efforts. Based on analysis of functional traits, we propose that the rapid life histories of constituent organisms may have played a key role in their successful recovery. We also suggest that the diverse epifaunal communities observed may have positive consequences for continued restoration success through the removal of fouling epiphytes from eelgrass blades. Given that restored eelgrass now make up 32% of total seagrass cover in the mid-Atlantic coastal bays, this restoration may foster regional biodiversity by providing new and pristine habitat, particularly given the general decline of existing eelgrass in this region, and globally.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1346/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Virginia Institute of Marine Science, College of William and Mary', u'Oregon Department of Fish & Wildlife, Marine Resources Program']]
[u'Characterization of two microsatellite PCR multiplexes for high throughput genotyping of the Caribbean spiny lobster, Panulirus argus', ['Nathan Truelove', 'Donald Behringer', 'Mark Butler IV', 'Richard F Preziosi'], u'2015-11-14', u'The spiny lobster Panulirus argus supports one of the most economically important commercial fisheries in the Caribbean, yet its sustainable management is problematic due to uncertainty regarding levels of population connectivity among Caribbean nations. We developed two microsatellite multiplex panels for P. argus to assist in future conservation genetics research studies of this important Caribbean species. Significant deviations from Hardy\u2013Weinberg equilibrium were observed at locus Par7 in multiplex 1 and loci Fwc08 and Fwc17 in multiplex 2. No evidence of linkage disequilibrium was observed. All 12 loci were used in both microsatellite multiplexes were polymorphic, with an average of 12 alleles per locus (ranging from 3 to 29 alleles per locus) and HO ranging from 0.368 to 0.921. These two microsatellite multiplexes will be a valuable resource for ongoing and future studies of conservation genetics in the Caribbean spiny lobster, Panulirus argus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1498/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Smithsonian Marine Station, Smithsonian National Museum of Natural History', u'School of Forest Resources and Conservation, University of Florida', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Old Dominion University', u'Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester']]
[u'From differential transcription of ribosomal proteins to differential structure of ribosomes', ['Nikolai Slavov'], u'2015-11-14', u'About a decade ago, I observed that as the cell growth rate increases, mRNAs coding for ribosomal proteins are transcriptionally induced to varying degrees. This observation puzzled me as it defied my expectation that faster growing cells meet their demands for increased protein synthesis by simply inducing all ribosomal proteins to the same degree to make more ribosomes. These initial data were limited to mRNA levels and thus too indirect to make concrete conclusions about ribosomal structure and function. This commentary outlines my trajectory investigating this puzzle in search of more direct data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1504/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Cell Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Bioengineering, Northeastern University']]
[u'XML schema validation using parsing expression grammars', ['Kimio Kuramitsu', "Shin'ya Yamaguchi"], u'2015-11-12', u'Schema validation is an integral part of reliable information exchange on the Web. However, implementing an efficient schema validation tool is not easy. We highlight the use of parsing expression grammars (PEGs), a recognition-based foundation for describing syntax, and apply it to the XML/DTD validation. This paper shows that structural schema constraints in document type definitions (DTDs) can be validated by the converted PEGs with the linear time and constant space consumption. We study the performance of several existing PEG-based tools, and then confirm that the converted PEGs achieve a practical and even competitive level of performance under existing standard XML/DTD validators.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1503/', ['Data Science', 'World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Programming Languages'], [u'Graduate School of Electronic and Computer Engineering, Yokohama National University']]
[u'Multilevel models for the distribution of hosts and symbionts', ['Maxwell B Joseph', 'William E Stutz', 'Pieter TJ Johnson'], u'2015-11-12', u'Symbiont occurrence is influenced by host occurrence and vice versa, which leads to correlations in host-symbiont distributions at multiple levels. Interactions between co-infecting symbionts within host individuals can cause correlations in the abundance of two symbiont species across individual hosts. Similarly, interactions between symbiont transmission and host population dynamics can drive correlations between symbiont and host abundance across habitat patches. If ignored, these interactions can confound estimated responses of hosts and symbionts to other factors. Here, we present a general hierarchical modeling framework for distributions of hosts and symbionts, estimating correlations in host-symbiont distributions at the among-site, within-site, among-species, and among-individual levels. We present an empirical example from a multi-host multi-parasite system involving amphibians and their micro- and macroparasites. Amphibian hosts and their parasites were correlated at multiple levels of organization. Macroparasites often co-infected individual hosts, but rarely co-infected with the amphibian chytrid fungus. Such correlations may result from interactions among parasites and hosts, joint responses to environmental factors, or sampling bias. Joint host-symbiont models account for environmental constraints and species interactions while partitioning variance and dependence in abundance at multiple levels. This framework can be adapted to a wide variety of study systems and sampling designs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1502/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Parasitology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado at Boulder']]
[u'Bioinformatics computation of metabolic models from sequenced genomes', ['Peter D Karp', 'Christos A Ouzounis'], u'2015-11-12', u'In the early days of the human genome project (HGP), during the late 1980s and early 1990s, there was skepticism that the genome project would produce biologically meaningful information. The reality is that bioinformatics has allowed us to extract far more biology from sequenced genomes than any published predictions in the early 1990s. Thanks to the efforts of many researchers in several subfields of bioinformatics, we can now process a sequenced genome through a series of computations to produce a quantitative metabolic flux model. Thus, surprisingly, bioinformatics has achieved what might have been held up as a holy grail of the field, before the goal was even articulated.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1501/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Bioinformatics Research Group, AI Center, SRI International', u'Biological Computation & Process Laboratory (BCPL), Chemical Process Engineering Research Institute (CPERI), Center for Research & Technology Hellas (CERTH)']]
[u"What's happening with HIV in Papua New Guinea?", ['Peter F Heywood'], u'2015-11-12', u'Introduction: In the 30 years since its identification in Papua New Guinea the response to HIV and its subsequent spread has waxed and waned and taken new directions as the social and biomedical environment changed. More than 30 years later the surveillance system continues to falter and there has still not been a national survey on which estimates can be based. Absent a functioning surveillance system, PNG \u2018\u2019estimates\u2019\u2019 the size of the epidemic from time to time based on mathematical models of the epidemic. This has resulted in widely varying estimates and confusion about the course of the epidemic. After appearance of the virus PNG struggled to design and implement an effective response. A new government at the end to the 1990s saw a strengthened response and formation of a National AIDS Council (NAC) located, eventually, in the Office of the Prime Minister. Around the same time PNG commenced a process of decentralizing government services to provinces and districts. DOH was expected to continue to provide services even though overall control now was with the NAC and responsibility for services was decentralized.Discussion: PNG is now reliant on mathematical models to estimate the course of the epidemic. Even though the most recent results indicate a fall in incidence since 2005, two recent reviews indicate that programs have not been effective at most levels and that the dual architecture of the government response has failed to adjust to the decentralization of government activities. Thus we now have the situation where models indicate lower prevalence than originally projected even though interventions are apparently ineffective and we have no reliable independent data to indicate why? There are two lessons from the PNG experience. First, the importance of establishing an effective HIV surveillance system. And second, realization that the NAC approach, originally seen as a panacea by donors and agencies, has not worked in PNG. The critical thing now is to return control of the HIV/AIDS program to the DOH on the condition that, except for surveillance and setting standards, it decentralizes the program to provinces and districts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1500/', ['Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'Menzies Centre for Health Policy, School of Public Health, University of Sydney']]
[u'Is type-D personality trait(s) or state? An examination of type-D temporal stability in older Israeli adults in the community', ['Ada H Zohar'], u'2015-11-12', u"Background: Type-D personality was suggested as a marker of poorer prognosis for patients of cardiovascular disease. It is defined by having a score of 10 or more on both sub-scales of the DS14 questionnaire, Social Inhibition (SI) and Negative Affect (NA). As Type-D was designed to predict risk, its temporal stability is of prime importance. Methods: Participants in the current study were 285 community volunteers, who completed the DS14, and other personality scales, at a mean interval of six years. Results: The prevalence of Type-D did not change. The component traits of Type-D showed rank order stability. Type-D caseness temporal stability was improved by using the total DS14 score. Using the scale's product as a criterion further improved temporal stability. Logistic hierarchical regression predicting Type-D classification from Time1 demonstrated that the best predictors were Time1 scores on NA and SI, with the character trait of Cooperation, and the alexithymia score adding some predictive power. Conclusions: Temporal stability of Type-D caseness may be improved by using a sum or product threshold, rather than the current rule. In any case, as the temporal stability of Type-D is limited, research is required to formulate the optimal timing for Type-D measurement for predictive purposes.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1499/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychology, Ruppin Academic Center']]
[u'The potential urinary aging markers of 20-month-old rats', ['Youhe Gao', 'Xundou Li'], u'2015-11-12', u'Urine is a very good source for biomarker discovery because it accumulates the changes of body. The urinary proteome is influenced by various factors, which is a major challenge in urinary biomarker discovery. To circumvent these problems, simpler systems, such as animal models, should be used to establish associations between physiological or pathological conditions and changes in the urinary proteome. In this study, the urinary proteome of young (2-month-old) and old rats (20-month-old; 9 in each group) were analyzed using LC-MS/MS and quantified using the Progenesis LC-MS software. A total of 371 proteins were identified, 194 of which were shared between young and old rats. Based on the criteria of a fold change \u2265 2, P < 0.05 and being identified in each rat in the high abundance group, 33 proteins were changed (15 up-regulated and 18 down-regulated in old rats). By adding a more stringent standard (protein spectral counts from every rat in the higher group greater than those in the lower group), 8 proteins were changed consistently in all rats of between the groups, 2 of which are also altered in the urinary proteome of aging humans. There are no shared proteins between our results and the previous aging plasma proteome. Twenty of the 33 (60 %) changed proteins have been reported to be disease biomarkers, which implies that aging may share similar urinary changes with some diseases. The 33 proteins corresponded to 28 human orthologs, which are strongly expressed in the kidney, intestine, cerebellum and lung, according to the human protein ATLAS. Therefore, the urinary proteome may reflect aging conditions in these organs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1494/', ['Biochemistry', 'Developmental Biology'], [u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Beijing Normal University, Gene Engineering and Biotechnology Beijing Key Laboratory', u'Department of Pathophysiology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences']]
[u'Winter is coming: cold hardiness attributes of a field population of the potato tuberworm Phthorimaea operculella', ['Stefanos S Andreadis', 'Yianna Poulia', 'Sofia Noukari', 'Barbara Aslanidou', 'Matilda Savopoulou-Soultani'], u'2015-11-11', u'The potato tuberworm, Phthorimaea operculella (Zeller) (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae), is a worldwide pest of solanaceous crops especially devastating to potatoes. In the present study we investigated the cold hardiness profile of short-term acclimated and non-acclimated immature and adult stages of a field population of P. operculella. Late instars displayed the lowest mean supercooling point, for both short-term acclimated and non-acclimated individuals, however, no significant differences were observed among developmental stages. Unlike supercooling capacity, acclimation at 5 oC for 5 days enhanced the ability to survive at subzero temperatures after a 2 h exposure. Mean lethal temperature (LTemp50) of all developmental stages (egg, late instar, pupa and adult) decreased after short-term acclimation, however only adults displayed a significant difference among acclimated and non-acclimated individuals concerning their LTemp50 (-11.1 and -8.3 oC, respectively). Generally, pupae were the most cold tolerant developmental stage followed in decreasing order by the eggs and adults, while interestingly late instars were the least ones. Non-freezing injury above the supercooling point was well documented for all developmental stages indicating a pre-freeze mortality and suggesting that P. operculella is considered to be chill tolerant rather than freeze intolerant. Nevertheless, given its high degree of cold hardiness, winter mortality of P. operculella due to low temperatures is not likely to occur and potential pest outbreak can take place following a mild winter.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1497/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Entomology/College of Agricultural Sciences, Pennsylvania State University', u'Department of Plant Protection/Faculty of Agriculture, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki', u'Department of Agricultural Technology, Technological Education Institute of Thessaloniki']]
[u'Pharmacophagy in green lacewings (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae: Chrysopa spp.)?', ['Jeffrey R Aldrich', 'Kamal Chauhan', 'Qing-He Zhang'], u'2015-11-11', u'Green lacewings (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae) are voracious predators of aphids and other small, soft-bodied insects and mites. Earlier, we identified the first lacewing pheromone from field-collected males of the goldeneyed lacewing, Chrysopa oculata Say; (1R,2S,5R,8R)-iridodial is released from thousands of microscopic dermal glands on the abdominal sterna of males, along with comparable amounts of nonanal, nonanol and nonanoic acid. Iridodial-baited traps attract C. oculata and other Chrysopa spp. males into traps, while females come to the vicinity of, but do not usually enter baited traps. Despite their healthy appearance, normal fertility and usual amounts of C9 compounds, laboratory-reared C. oculata males do not produce iridodial. However, we observed that goldeneyed lacewing males caught alive in iridodial-baited traps sometimes try to eat the lure, and in Asia Chrysopa spp. males reportedly eat the native plant, Actinidia polygama (Siebold & Zucc.) Maxim. (Actinidiaceae) to obtain the iridoid, neomatatabiol. These observations prompted us to investigate why laboratory-reared Chrysopa green lacewings do not produce iridodial. Lacewing adult males fed various monoterpenes reduced carbonyls to alcohols and saturated double bonds, but did not convert these compounds to iridodial. Males fed the bicyclic iridoid aphid pheromone component, (4aS,7S,7aR)-nepetalactone, converted ~75% to dihydronepetalactone, but did not produce iridodial; however, wild C. oculata males collected in May often contained traces of dihydronepetalactone. On the other hand, adult males fed the second common aphid pheromone component, (1R,4aS,7S,7aR)-nepetalactol, converted this compound to iridodial. In California the peak late-season attraction of green lacewings to nepetalactol (the lactone is unattractive) occurs at least a month earlier than the peak in aphid oviparae (the pheromone producing morph of aphids), consistent with the hypothesis that Chrysopa males feed on oviparae to obtain nepetalactol as a precursor to iridodial. Adult males from laboratory-reared C. oculata larvae fed nepetalactol failed to produce iridodial, and wild C. oculata males collected early in the spring produce less iridodial than males collected later in the season. Therefore, we further hypothesize that Asian Chrysopa eat A. polygama to obtain iridoid precursors in order to make their pheromone, and that other iridoid-producing plants elsewhere in the world must be similarly usurped by male Chrysopa species to sequester pheromone precursors. Whether or not sequestration of iridodial precursors from oviparae and/or iridoid-containing plants is truly the explanation for lack of pheromone in laboratory-reared Chrysopa awaits further research .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1311/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Entomology & Nematology, University of California, Davis', u'Invasive Insect Biocontrol and Behavior Laboratory, United States Department of Agriculture-Agriculture Research Service', u'Sterling International, Inc.']]
[u'Designing conservation strategies to preserve the genetic diversity of Astragalus edulis Bunge, an endangered species from western Mediterranean region', ['Julio Penas', 'Sara Barrios', 'Javier Bobo-Pinilla', 'Juan Lorite', 'M. Montserrat Martinez-Ortega'], u'2015-11-11', u'Astragalus edulis (Fabaceae) is an endangered annual species from western Mediterranean region that colonized SE Iberian Peninsula, NE and SW Morocco, and the easternmost Macaronesian islands (Lanzarote and Fuerteventura). Although in Spain some conservation measures have been adopted, it is still necessary to develop an appropriate management plan to preserve genetic diversity across the entire distribution area of the species. Our main objective was to use population genetics as well as ecological and phylogeographic data to select Relevant Genetic Units for Conservation (RGUCs) as the first step in designing conservation plans for A. edulis. We identified six RGUCs for in situ conservation, based on estimations of population genetic structure and probabilities of the loss of rare alleles. Additionally, further population parameters, i.e. occupation area, population size, vulnerability, legal status of the population areas, and the historical haplotype distribution, were considered in order to establish which populations deserve conservation priority. Three populations from the Iberian Peninsula, two from Morocco, and one from the Canary Islands represent the total genetic diversity of the species and the rarest allelic variation. Ex situ conservation is recommended to complement the preservation of A. edulis, given that effective in situ population protection is not feasible in all cases. The consideration of complementary phylogeographic and ecological data is useful for management efforts to preserve the evolutionary potential of the species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1496/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Botany, University of Granada', u'Department of Botany, University of Salamanca']]
[u'Relative contribution of ecological and biological attributes in the fine-grain structure of ant-plant networks', ['Cecilia Diaz-Castelazo', 'Victor Rico-Gray'], u'2015-11-11', u'Background. Ecological communities of interacting species analyzed as complex networks, revealed that species dependence on their counterpart is more complex than expected at random. For ant-plant networks (mediated by extrafloral nectar), links among species are asymmetric (nested), forming a core of generalist species. Proposed factors affecting network organization include encounter probability (species abundances, habitat heterogeneity), behavior, phylogeny and body size. While the importance of underlying factors that influence structure of ant-plant networks have been separately explored, simultaneous contribution of several biological and ecological attributes inherent to the species, guild or habitat level have not been addressed. Methods. For a tropical seasonal site we recorded frequency of pairwise ant-plant interactions mediated by extrafloral nectaries, attributes of interacting species, habitat attributes, cover of plants with EFNs, and studied the resultant network structure. We addressed for the first time the role of mechanistic versus neutral determinants at the \u201cfine-grain\u201d structure (pairwise interactions) of ant-plant networks, studying the simultaneous contribution of several plant, ant, and habitat attributes in prevailing interactions as well as in overall network topology (community). Results. Our studied network was highly-nested, non-modular, with core species in general having high species strengths (higher strength values for ants than plants) and low specialization; plants had higher dependences on their counterparts. The significant factor explaining network and fine-grain structure was habitat heterogeneity in vegetation structure (open vs. shaded habitats), with no evidence of neutral (abundance) effects. Discussion. Core ant species are relevant to most plants species at the network, the latter depending more on the former, core ants showing adaptations to nectar consumption and deterrent behavior, suggestive of potential biotic defense at a community scale. At our study site spatiotemporal heterogeneity is so strong, that emerges at community-level structural properties, depicting influence of abiotic factors in facultative mutualism. Frequent occurrence of morphologically-diverse EFNs at all habitats suggests plasticity in plant strategies for biotic defense provided by ants.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1495/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Red de Interacciones Multitr\xf3ficas, Instituto de Ecolog\xeda, A.C.', u'Instituto de Neuroetologia, Universidad Veracruzana']]
[u'The use and evaluation of self-regulation techniques can predict health goal attainment in adults: an explorative study', ['Jolien Plaete', 'Ilse De Bourdeaudhuij', 'Maite Verloigne', 'Geert Crombez'], u'2015-11-11', u'Background. Self-regulation tools are not always used optimally, and implementation intention plans often lack quality. Therefore, this study explored participants\u2019 use and feasibility evaluation of self-regulation techniques and their impact on goal attainment.\nMethods. Data were obtained from 452 adults in a proof of concept (POC) intervention of \u2018MyPlan\u2019, an eHealth intervention using self-regulation techniques to promote three healthy behaviours (physical activity(PA), fruit intake, or vegetable intake). Participants applied self-regulation techniques to a self-selected health behaviour, and evaluated the self-regulation techniques. The quality of implementation intentions was rated by the authors as a function of instrumentality (instrumental and non-instrumental) and specificity (non-specific and medium to high specific). Logistic regression analyses were conducted to predict goal attainment.\nResults. Goal attainment was significantly predicted by the motivational value of the personal advice (OR:1.86), by the specificity of the implementation intentions (OR:3.5), by the motivational value of the action plan (OR:1.86), and by making a new action plan at follow-up (OR:4.10). Interaction-effects with behaviour showed that the specificity score of the implementation intention plans (OR:4.59), the motivational value of the personal advice (OR:2.38), selecting hindering factors and solutions(OR:2.00) and making a new action plan at follow-up (OR:7.54) were predictive of goal attainment only for fruit or vegetable intake. Also, when participants in the fruit and vegetable group made more than three plans, they were more likely to attain their goal (OR:1.73), whereas the reverse was the case in the PA group (OR:0.34).\nDiscussion. Feedback on goal feasibility, coping implementation intentions, further research to investigate the optimal number of plans for different behaviours, the optimal frequency and timing of follow-up modules and new ways to incorporate social support in eHealth interventions, are recommended.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1493/', ['Global Health', 'Nutrition', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Movement and Sport Sciences, Ghent University', u'Department of Experimental-Clinical and Health Psychology, Ghent University', u'Bath University, Center for Pain Research']]
[u'A novel method to determine perineal artery occlusion among male bicyclists', ['Sujeeth Parthiban', 'James M Hotaling', 'Martin Kathrins', 'Amit P Baftiri', 'Sally Freels', 'Craig S Niederberger'], u'2015-11-11', u'Background: Perineal pressure due to bicycle riding has been associated with erectile dysfunction. We developed a novel method to measure the occlusive force exerted over the perineal arteries and determined perineal artery occlusion by a variety of seat designs. Methods: Doppler ultrasonography facilitated perineal artery localization and determination of the force required for perineal artery occlusion in 20 healthy men. Flexiforce\xae sensors were affixed over the proximal and distal aspects of the perineal arteries bilaterally. Individuals completed bicycle rides in the road- and stationary-settings with six distinct seat designs. , including those with and without an anterior \u201cnose\u201d. Results: The occlusion time proportion of the total ride time was calculated for each trial. The overall occlusion time proportion was 0.59 (95% CI 0.45-0.73) across all seats and settings. The \u201cno-nose\u201d bicycle seat and the stationary-setting demonstrated significantly lower occlusion proportion times than the traditional nose bicycle seat and road-setting, respectively. However, all bicycle seats yielded an occlusion time proportion of 0.41 or greater. Discussion: Our method of real-time, non-invasive force measurement localized to the perineal arteries may be used to validate future bicycle seat design. It also underscores the significant risk of perineal artery insufficiency in men who are avid bicyclists. This risk may be minimized by using newer \u201cno-nose\u201d bicycle seats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1492/', ['Andrology', 'Epidemiology', 'Kinesiology', 'Urology'], [u'Department of Bioengineering, University of Illinois at Chicago', u'Department of Urology, University of Illinois at Chicago', u'Department of Radiology, University of Illinois at Chicago', u'Epidemiology and Biostatistics division, University of Illinois at Chicago']]
[u'Phylogenetic and morphologic evidence confirm the presence of a new montane cloud forest associated bird species in Mexico, the Mountain Elaenia (Elaenia frantzii; Aves: Passeriformes: Tyrannidae)', ['Zachary R Hanna', 'Marco F Ortiz-Ramirez', 'Cesar A. Rios-Munoz', 'Hector Cayetano-Rosas', 'Rauri C. K. Bowie', 'Adolfo G Navarro-Siguenza'], u'2015-11-11', u'We here provide evidence to support an extension of the recognized distributional range of the Mountain Elaenia (Elaenia frantzii) to include southern Mexico. We collected two specimens in breeding condition in northwestern Sierra Norte de Chiapas, Mexico. Morphologic and genetic evidence support their identity as Elaenia frantzii. We compared environmental parameters of records across the entire geographic range of the species to those at the northern Chiapas survey site and found no climatic differences among localities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1491/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Genetics', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, University of California, Berkeley', u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley', u'Ornithology & Mammalogy, California Academy of Sciences', u'Museo de Zoolog\xeda, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Posgrado en Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Unidad de Investigaci\xf3n en Medicina Experimental, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico']]
[u'The first Mares Conference on Marine Ecosystems Health and Conservation 2014: key messages and outcomes', ['Tim Deprez', 'Magda Vincx', 'Adelino V.M. Canario', 'Karim Erzini', 'Katherine Brownlie'], u'2015-11-11', u'The first Mares Conference on Marine Ecosystems Health and Conservation was a successful event organized by the MARES doctoral programme bringing together over 150 researchers in Olh\xe3o, Portugal from November 17th to 21st 2014. The conference was opened by Prof. Dr. Hans-Otto P\xf6rtner, whose keynote address focused on a sectoral analysis by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report (IPCC AR5) on the impacts of climate change on the world\u2019s oceans. The first session on \u201cFuture oceans\u201d was opened with a talk by Dr. Frank Melzner highlighting the problems calcifying invertebrates face in the warmer, more acidic and hypoxic waters. Other presenters dealt with changing global diversity patterns, ocean acidification, and the loss the genetic diversity. The second session on \u201cNatural resources\u201d was opened by Dr. Rainer Froese, who focused on whether or not the oceans can feed humanity. This talk introduced other contributions in the session, dealing with fisheries issues and Marine Protected Areas, as well as problems with proper identifications of species used for economic purposes. \u201cBiodiversity effects\u201d was the scope of the third session opened by a talk on oxygenation and marine biodiversity challenges in the 21st Century by Prof. Lisa Levin. Rapid ocean deoxygenation is a process which is currently less investigated but which has considerable effects on body size, taxonomic composition, habitat heterogeneity, and nutrient cycling. The following presentations focused on other factors having a strong effect on marine biodiversity, ranging from the harvesting of algae to the fragmentation of ecosystems. The fourth session addressed \u201cBiological invasions\u201d. Dr. Gregory Ruiz discussed biological invasions in North American marine ecosystems and the need for constant monitoring, and the use of a dynamic and multi-vector approach. Problems with invasive species in European waters were addressed with examples from the Baltic Sea, the North Sea, and the Mediterranean Sea. The fifth session on \u201cOcean Noise\u201d was opened by Prof. Peter Tyack with a talk on the effects of anthropogenic sound on marine mammals. Although ocean noise issues are often linked to marine mammals, the effects of sound related to marine constructions on fish behaviour, nicely illustrated that ocean noise is a factor with a much broader impact than expected. The last session of the first Mares Conference dealt with \u201cHabitat loss\u201d. Dr. Michael Beck focused on this topic with his talk on \u2018Building Coastal Resilience for Climate Adaptation and Risk Reduction\u2019. Talks in the session ranged from the use of telemetry as a tool to monitor species in changed habitats, to cases dealing with sea level rise related problems in for example salt-marshes. The first Mares Conference offered a broad range of oral and poster presentations, as well as digital presentations. The poster and digital object presentations included over 100 contributions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1490/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Biology Department, Universiteit Gent', u'CCMAR - Centre for Marine Science, Universidade do Algarve', u'CCMAR, Universidade do Algarve', u'Marine Biology Research Group, Universiteit Gent']]
[u'From sporadic to global: The changing face of H5N8', ['Andrew Dalby'], u'2015-11-10', u'The H5N8 influenza subtype is a relatively new highly pathogenic avian influenza. Until the recent Korean outbreak of H5N8 the viral subtype had only been detected sporadically. This paper looks at the multiple reassortment events between H5 hemagglutinin and N8 neuraminidase segments that explain the breaks in the history of the H5N8 subtype, especially in the United States and that show that the recent reassortment has produced an outbreak that has very different characteristics to previous H5N8 outbreaks.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1489/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Westminster']]
[u'Discovery of a few photosynthesis models through red light absorbance-transmittance of the e1 leaf sectors of newly bred hybrids of maize (Zea mays L.)', ['Nav Raj Adhikari', 'Surya Kant Ghimire', 'Shrawan Kumar Sah', 'Keshab Babu Koirala'], u'2015-11-09', u'Background: Pipeline hybrids of maize must be evaluated very intensively and from several perspectives in order to extract reliability of success of the hybrids in farmers\u2019 field before their release as cultivars and to extract some useful physiology preferably photosynthesis and tolerance of green LS (leaf sectors) under biotic and abiotic stresses as scientists\u2019 bonus. For it, five pipeline single cross hybrids of yellow maize have been examined from the standpoint of photosynthetic potentiality of central leaf and nutrient mobilization from it to ear for grain fill. Materials and methods: Just above ear (e1) leaf have been minutely examined through ratio of absorbance to transmittance of red light of 650 nm (RAT) measure, chl and N concentration (conc). From correlation coefficients (r) computed between grain yield (GY) and frequency of LS of varying RAT SPAD (Soil Plant Analysis and Development) measures, chl and N conc; a few photosynthesis models have been proposed to explain leaf physiologies and its effects on GY. Results and discussions: Through analysis of frequency distribution of RAT measures and r between GY and frequency of LS of varying RAT (SPAD) measure, RATA Makai model has been proposed to explain for a variety of efficiency of antennae to harvest light energy especially red photons and transfer the energy to reaction centers (RCs). Antenna has been classified into functional, semi-functional and least functional based on their contribution on GY. Next is diversity model to explain existence of two types of diversity of leaf sector such as narrow and wide diversity on the central maize leaf based on r between GY and frequency of LS of varying RAT. This sort of LS diversity study helps classify nature of LS based on RAT and or chl and N conc. A few more models proposed in it are NARC (Nitrogen Concentration in Antenna and Reaction Centers) and PAY (Protein Amounts and its effects on Yield) based on r between GY and leaf N and protein amounts. In addition; strong positive r has been found between GY and the frequencies of the LS of 46-52 RAT SPAD; 46-56 \u03bcg cm-2 of chl conc and 2-2.3% N of dry weight; This way, we proposed about threshold and upper limit of the RAT SPAD, chl and N conc in maize leaves. It implies that cells in the RAT SPAD range 46-52 are genotype based multiplicative, physiologically active and competent to make their identity in the e1 leaf of the hybrids for GY contribution. Furthermore, next model of \u201cgreen car\u201d has been proposed for four kinds of proportion of green and carotenoid (car) conc: high green-high car, high green-low car, low green-high car and low green-low car on maize leaves and their effects on grain yield and dry matter production. We can extract a model of no car-no food from the existence of effect phenomena of high green-low car conc on the low dry matter and GYs in maize.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1477/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'Plant Breeding Department, Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science, Tribhuvan University, Nepal', u'Department of Genetics and Plant Breeding, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'Department of Agronomy, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'Planning Division, Nepal Agriculture Research Council']]
[u'Open Access dynamics and prospects', ['Grzegorz Grynkiewicz', 'Katarzyna Filip'], u'2015-11-09', u'The www has started a new era in dissemination of scientific information, which is already to such extent propagated by electronic media that it has become practically independent from the system of subscription driven printed journals. These developments of marked increase in availability of scientific information, commonly described as Open Access, have profound consequences for functioning of all segments of scientific community and also strategically influence education systems. Generally, there are growing expectations for freely available results of publicly funded research. Open Access (OA), which is developing for ca 25 years, has generated a number of large publishers (i.e. BioMedCentral) and over 5 000 of scholarly peer reviewed journals, which can be checked in the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ; https://doaj.org/). Leaving aside new types of business models which evolved in connection with widespread of electronic publishing, we will analyze the OA phenomenon from the point of view of an active life science researcher, as a reader and an author. Thus, the OA \u201cfor profit\u201d publishing modalities, distinguished as \u201cgreen route\u201d and \u201cgold route\u201d will be presented as well as some extracts from ongoing debate on the economics of particular variants. Finally, the question of choice between publishing options for prospective results in getting cited, will be touched upon.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1485/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'Evaluation of candidate reference genes for expression study in Saccharum spp. hybrids under heavy metal stress', ['Hui Ling', 'Ning Huang', 'Liping Xu', 'Long Huang', 'Qibin Wu', 'Jinlong Guo', 'Yachun Su', 'Youxiong Que'], u'2015-11-09', u"Heavy metal contamination has been a significant problem limiting agricultural development, but sugarcane has recently emerged as a valuable phytoremediator. To better understand the molecular mechanism behind sugarcane's metal tolerance, it is necessary to analyze the expression of a novel gene(s) by qRT-PCR. Importantly, introducing internal reference gene(s) should be selected based upon gene stable expression, the inclusion of which could enhance both the accuracy and reliability of this method. In this study, 13 candidate genes were selected and evaluated stability of each genes. The results derived by statistical algorithms were then validated by normalizing the expression of metal related gene ScMTP (GenBank Accession No. KP864146), ScMT2-1-3 (GenBank Accession No. JQ627644), ScMPP (GenBank Accession No. CA267392.1) and ScHMA1 (GenBank Accession No. CA156665.1). Collectively, our qRT-PCR results indicated that in heavy metal-exposed sugarcane, APRT was the better single internal control in expression quantification. Moreover, the combination of CAC + CUL provide for a more accurate normalization for gene transcript profiles under these same conditions. The gene expression quantification that included APRT and CAC + CUL suggested that ScMTP had a differential expression pattern, ScMT2-1-3 and ScMPP were slightly inhibited, and ScHMA1 had minimal induction of expression in response to Cd2+ and Cu2+ stresses in sugarcane. Taken together, the suitable reference genes identified in this study will benefit future work aimed at the sugarcane gene functional characterization.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1487/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Key Laboratory of Sugarcane Biology and Genetic Breeding, Ministry of Agriculture', u'Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University, Key Laboratory of Sugarcane Biology and Genetic Breeding, Ministry of Agriculture', u'Key Lab of Sugarcane Biology and Genetic Breeding, Ministry of Agriculture, Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University']]
[u'A short history of MKNOL', ['Katarzyna Filip', 'Grzegorz Grynkiewicz'], u'2015-11-09', u'The Multidisciplinary Conference on Drug Research is being organized every two years since 1999 under auspices of Pharmaceutical Research Institute and constitutes a forum for presenting research results, exchange views and multi-faceted discussion between professionals associated with the broader science of medicine. The lectures cover topics in the field of medicinal chemistry, organic synthesis and technology, pharmaceutical analysis and clinical and pharmaceutical technology. Scientific program of MKNOL (Polish acronym of the conference) reflects the intention of Scientific Committee to comprise various aspects of drug discovery development process, stressing from the beginning the need for multidisciplinary communication of all researchers interested in scientific progress for betterment of human life. Past editions of the MKNOL: a) I. Muszyna, 3-5 March 1999, b) II. Jelenia G\xf3ra-Cieplice, 5-7 April 2000, c) III. Pi\u0142a, 13-16 May 2002, d) IV. Gda\u0144sk-Sobieszewo 17-19 May 2004, e) V. Dar\u0142\xf3wko Wschodnie, 15-17 May 2006, f) VI. Przemy\u015bl-Krasiczyn, 26-28 May 2008, g) VII. Zakopane, 10-12 May 2010, h) VIII. Ossa ko\u0142o Rawy Mazowieckiej, 30 May -1 June 2012, i) IX. Korytnica ko\u0142o Szyd\u0142owa, 12-14 May 2014. We hope that the X MKNOL will be also a great opportunity to share new scientific achievements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1486/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Pharmaceutical Research Institute']]
[u'A New Method for Ecoacoustics? Toward the Extraction and Evaluation of Ecologically-Meaningful Sound Objects using Sparse Coding Methods', ['Alice C Eldridge', 'Michael Casey', 'Paola Moscoso', 'Mika Peck'], u'2015-11-09', u'Efficient methods of biodiversity assessment and monitoring are central to ecological research and crucial in conservation management. Technological advances in remote acoustic sensing inspire new perspectives in ecology: environmental sound monitoring is emerging as a reliable non-invasive proxy for ecological complexity (Sueur and Farina, 2015). Rather than attempting to recognise species-specific calls, either manually or automatically, we are interested in monitoring the global acoustic environment, tackling the problem of diversity assessment at the community (rather than species) level. Preliminary work has attempted to make a case for community-level acoustic indices (e.g. Pieretti et al., 2011; Farina, 2014; Sueur et al., 2008b) which provide simple statistical summaries of the frequency or time domain signal. We suggest that under this approach, the opportunity to analyse spectro-temporal structural information is diminished, limiting their power both as monitoring and investigative tools. In this paper we consider sparse-coding and source separation algorithms (specifically, shift-invariant probabilistic latent component analysis in 2D) as a means to access and summarise ecologically-meaningful sound objects. In doing so we highlight a possible new approach for understanding and assessing ecologically relevant interactions within the conceptual framework of ecoacoustics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1407/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Adaptive and Self-Organizing Systems', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'Evolution, Behaviour and Environment, University of Sussex', u'Depts. Music and Computer Science, Dartmouth College']]
[u'How Fast Can a Human Run? \u2212 Bipedal vs. Quadrupedal Running', ['Ryuta Kinugasa', 'Yoshiyuki Usami'], u'2015-11-09', u'Background. Usain Bolt holds the current world record for a 100-m run, 9.58 s, and has been described as the best human sprinter in history. However, this raises questions concerning the maximum human running speed. Can the world\u2019s fastest men become faster still? The correct answer is likely \u201cYes\u201d. Methods. We plotted the historical world records for bipedal and quadrupedal 100-m sprint times according to competition year. These historical records were plotted using several curve-fitting procedures. Results. We found that the projected speeds intersected in 2052, when for the first time, the winning quadrupedal 100-m sprint time of 9.249 s was projected to be lower than the winning bipedal time of 9.350 s. Conclusion. Quadrupedal running is not a new running style, and has been used by all humans. This running style simply awakens a human locomotive instinct from an enduring sleep.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1484/', ['Bioengineering', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Kinesiology'], [u'Department of Human Sciences, Kanagawa University', u'Institute of Physics, Kanagawa University']]
[u'The Mares Conference on Marine Ecosystems Health and Conservation 2016: key themes', ['Tim Deprez', 'Katherine Brownlie', 'Rick A Officer', 'Marina Cunha', 'Karim Erzini'], u'2015-11-09', u'Marine environments are generally considered as highly valuable and their health and conservation status are seen as key priorities. However, marine wildlife and habitats are facing multiple threats ranging from eutrophication to overfishing and ocean acidification, all of which directly or indirectly affect the biodiversity of marine ecosystems. The Mares Conference 2016 aims to address the main issues of marine ecosystems health and conservation. To do this, six thematic subjects will be explored throughout the conference scientific sessions and exhibitions; 1) Future oceans: Temperature increase, ocean acidification and expanding hypoxic zones in the ocean have the most prominent impacts on marine ecosystems health on the global scale. Recent results show that the reaction of marine ecosystems towards climate change, including ocean warming, acidification and expanding hypoxic zones, is often not linear but may occur in abrupt reorganisations of marine communities. 2) Understanding biodiversity effects on the functioning of marine ecosystems: During the last decades, it has become increasingly clear that the biodiversity of an ecosystem and its functional features are intricately linked. The objective of this theme is to further our understanding of how interactions between species, can be influenced by anthropogenic activities (pollution, fisheries). 3) Biological invasions: Species introduced outside their natural range are deemed non indigenous species. Invasive alien species can have adverse effects on biological diversity, ecosystem functioning, socio-economic values and/or human health in invaded regions. 4) Natural resources: overexploitation, fisheries and aquaculture: Since the late 19th century, the world fisheries catch has increased steadily, however, analysis of global trends of the most important marine stocks in the world shows that the majority are overexploited or depleted. 5) Ocean noise pollution: Anthropogenic sources of noise in the marine environment have increased in line with expansion in shipping, oil and gas exploration, infrastructure development, offshore renewable energy generation, naval sonar and research activities. These sound sources vary in intensity and frequency and can result in chronic and acute impacts on marine organisms. 6) Habitat loss, urban development, coastal infrastructures and marine spatial planning: The coastal zones are changing under pressure from a growing human population and the conversion of shoreline habitat to urban development. While the conservation challenges associated with the expansion of human infrastructures are well understood in terrestrial systems, urban ecology has not been of as much focus in marine science and management.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1483/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Biology Department, Universiteit Gent', u'Marine Biology Research Group, Universiteit Gent', u'Marine and Freshwater Research Centre, Galway Mayo Institute of Technology', u'Biology Department, Universidade de Aveiro', u'CCMAR, Universidade do Algarve']]
[u'Spider phylogenomics: untangling the Spider Tree of Life', ['Nicole L Garrison', 'Juanita Rodriguez', 'Ingi Agnarsson', 'Jonathan A Coddington', 'Charles E Griswold', 'Christopher A Hamilton', 'Marshal Hedin', 'Kevin M Kocot', 'Joel M Ledford', 'Jason E Bond'], u'2015-11-07', u'Spiders (Order Araneae) are massively abundant generalist arthropod predators that are found in nearly every ecosystem on the planet and have persisted for over 380 million years. Spiders have long served as evolutionary models for studying complex mating and web spinning behaviors, key innovation and adaptive radiation hypotheses, and have been inspiration for important theories like sexual selection by female choice. Unfortunately, past major attempts to reconstruct spider phylogeny typically employing the \u201cusual suspect\u201d genes have been unable to produce a well-supported phylogenetic framework for the entire order. To further resolve spider evolutionary relationships we have assembled a transcriptome-based data set comprising 70 ingroup spider taxa. Using maximum likelihood and shortcut coalescence-based approaches, we analyze eight data sets, the largest of which contains 3,398 gene regions and 696,652 amino acid sites forming the largest phylogenomic analysis of spider relationships produced to date. Contrary to long held beliefs that the orb web is the crowning achievement of spider evolution, ancestral state reconstructions of web type support a phylogenetically ancient origin of the orb web and diversification analyses show that the mostly ground-dwelling, web-less RTA clade diversified faster than orb weavers. Consistent with molecular dating estimates we report herein, this may reflect a major increase in biomass of non-flying insects during the Cretaceous Tertiary Revolution 125-90 million years ago favoring diversification of spiders that feed on cursorial rather than flying prey. Our results also have major implications for our understanding of spider systematics. Phylogenomic analyses corroborate several well-accepted high level groupings: Opisthothele, Mygalomorphae, Atypoidina, Aviculariodea, Theraphosidina, Araneomorphae, Entelygynae, Araneoidea, the RTA \u2013 clade, Dionycha and the Lycosoidea. Alternatively, our results challenge the monophyly of Eresoidea, Orbiculariae, and Deinopoidea. The composition of the major Paleocribellate and Neocribellate clades, the basal divisions of Araneomorphae, appear to be falsified. Traditional Haplogynae, and even the new concept of Synspermiata, need revision after the departure of Filistatidae and Leptonetidae from the haplogyne clade. The sister pairing of filistatids with hypochilids, implies that some peculiar features of each family may in fact be synapomorphic for the pair. Leptonetids now are seen as a possible sister group to the Entelegynae, illustrating possible intermediates in the evolution of the more complex entelegyne genitalic condition, spinning organs and respiratory organs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1482/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences and Auburn University Museum of Natural History, Auburn University', u'Department of Biology, University of Vermont', u'Department of Entomology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution', u'Arachnology, California Academy of Sciences', u'McGuire Center for Lepidoptera and Biodiversity Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida', u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Alabama - Tuscaloosa', u'Department of Plant Biology, University of California, Davis']]
[u'Palatability of flunixin and pharmacokinetics when administered to sheep through feed', ['Danila Marini', 'Joe Pippia', 'Ian G Colditz', 'Geoff G N Hinch', 'Carol J Petherick', 'Caroline Lee'], u'2015-11-07', u'Applying analgesics to feed is a potentially easy method of providing pain-relief to sheep and lambs that undergo painful husbandry procedures. In order for sheep to consume medicated feed it needs to be know if the medication has an adverse odour or flavour that may affect consumption. It is also important to determine if therapeutic concentrations of a non-steroidal anti-inflammatories (NSAIDs) can be achieved when administered to sheep as a feed supplement. Pelleted feed was supplemented with flunixin (4.0mg/kg liveweight) and administered to eight sheep, which they were able to consume over a 12 h period. Blood samples were taken over 48 h and plasma drug concentrations were determined using Ultra High Pressure Liquid Chromatography. The mean time required to reach maximum concentration was 6 \xb1 1.46 h and ranged from 1 to 12 h. Average maximum plasma concentration was 1.78 \xb1 0.17\xb5g/mL and ranged from 1.61 to 2.80 \xb5g/mL. The average half-life of flunixin was 7.95 \xb1 0.77 h and there was a mean retention time of 13.62 \xb1 1.17 h. Sheep did not show aversiveness to pellets supplemented with flunixin. When consuming medicated feed ad libitum all sheep were able to obtain inferred therapeutic concentrations of flunixin in plasma within 6 h. Provision of flunixin in the feed may provide a practical way to provide pain relief to sheep and lambs following painful husbandry procedures removing the need for multiple injections, reducing handling stress and minimising labour requirements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1481/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England', u'Department of Agriculture, Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation', u'Pia Pharma Pty Ltd', u'Queensland Alliance for Agriculture and Food Innovation, The University of Queensland']]
[u'Effects of shoreline oiling on salt marsh epifaunal macroinvertebrates', ['Donald R Deis', 'John W Fleeger', 'Stefan M Bourgoin', 'Irving A Mendelssohn', 'Qianxin Lin', 'Aixin Hou'], u'2015-11-07', u'The Deepwater Horizon oil spill resulted in varying degrees of oiling in the salt marshes of northern Barataria Bay, Louisiana, USA. This study examines the effects of oiling intensity and recovery on two conspicuous marsh-platform macroinvertebrates, Uca spp., fiddler crabs, and Littoraria irrorata, the salt marsh periwinkle, from 2.5 to 4.5 years after the spill. The dominant fiddler crab within these marshes, Uca longisignalis, was the only species observed in field collections, and no significant difference in burrow density or burrow size was found among oiling levels over the study period indicating recovery from any negative effects of oiling already occurred for this species. The highest density of L. irrorata was found at moderately oiled sites compared to both reference (without visible oiling) and heavily oiled stations. Spartina alterniflora density recovered within two years after the spill at the moderately oiled stations facilitating recovery of L. irrorata approximately one year later. L. irrorata average shell length and length-frequency distributions were equivalent at moderately oiled and reference stations but snails were shorter at heavily oiled stations because of a greater proportion of subadults.  Shell length data from the heavily oiled sites indicate that direct mortality due to oiling or oil-induced reductions in recruitment occurred in 2010 and that recovery was starting to occur at 48 months after the spill. The extent and duration of oil in the water during the spill and the biological responses we measured indicates that L. irrorata and Uca longisignalis were both affected in their ability to carry out their life cycle on the marsh and/or in the water column at all stations including the reference stations for some period following the entry of oil into the region.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1480/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'Atkins', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University', u'Atkins', u'Department of Oceanography and Coastal Sciences, Louisiana State University', u'Department of Environmental Sciences, School of the Coast and Environment, Louisiana State University']]
[u'Attending and inhibiting stimuli that match the contents of visual working memory: Evidence from eye movements and pupillometry', ['Sebastiaan Mathot', 'Elle Van Heusden', 'Stefan Van der Stigchel'], u'2015-11-06', u'When you keep a red apple in working memory, your attention is usually\u2014but not always\u2014attracted by other red objects. The conditions under which the contents of visual working memory guide visual attention are still unclear. Here we tested whether attention is indeed biased toward memory-match stimuli, and, if so, whether this bias is transient or sustained. We used a new pupillometric technique, which exploits that the pupil is larger when you covertly attend to dark, compared to bright, stimuli. This allowed us to test whether and when attention was biased toward memory-match stimuli, by placing them either on a dark or a bright background, while measuring pupil size over time. We found that the eyes were captured by memory-match probes early on in the trial. However, the pupillary data suggested that there was no sustained attention bias toward memory-match probes later in time; rather, attention appeared to be biased away from them. Together, our results suggest that: (1) memory-match stimuli automatically capture attention; but (2) they do so only briefly; and (3) they may even become inhibited later in time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1478/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive, UMR 7290, CNRS / Aix-Marseille Universit\xe9', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, Helmholtz Institute, Utrecht University']]
[u'Non-native species in the vascular flora of highlands and mountains of Iceland', ['Pawel Wasowicz'], u'2015-11-05', u'The highlands and mountains of Iceland, defined here as areas located above 400 m above sea level (m.a.s.l.) are one of the largest remaining wilderness areas in Europe. The present study was aimed to provide the first comprehensive and up-to-date data on non-native plant species from this region. The study was aimed to answer the following questions: (1) How many non-native vascular plant species inhabit highland and mountainous environments in Iceland? (2) Do temporal trends in alien species immigration to Iceland and highland areas differ? (3) Do human disturbed and undisturbed areas within Icelandic highlands differ in terms of alien species occurrence? (4) Is spread within the highland areas a second step in alien plant colonization? and (5) Can we point out hot-spots in the distribution of non native taxa within highlands? Overall, 16 non-native vascular plant species were detected, including 11 casuals and 5 naturalized taxa (1 invasive). Results showed that temporal trends in alien species immigration to Iceland and to highland areas are similar, but it is clear that the process of colonization of highland areas is still in its initial phase. It was evidenced that non-native plants tend to occur close to man-made infrastructure and buildings including huts, shelters, road network etc. Analysis of spatio-temporal patterns showed that the spread within highland areas is a second step in non-native plant colonization in Iceland. Several statically significant hot spots of alien plant occurrences were be identified using Getis-Ord Gi* statistic and linked to human disturbance. This research suggests that human-mediated dispersal is the main driving force increasing the risk of invasion in Icelandic highlands and mountain areas.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1165/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Icelandic Institute of Natural History']]
[u'Public health semantics of the YY paradox', ['Mili Mishra', 'Anup K Srivastava', 'Vinod K Srivastava'], u'2015-11-05', u'Background: Body Mass Index (BMI) has lost its credibility as an indicator of fatness. 3D scan and body composition details of Yajnik and Yudnik, the authors with similar BMI but very different body fat percentage was labelled as \u2018YY paradox\u2019. 3D scanners are not widely available; as such dependence on less specific tools is still high. It was assumed that such paradoxes may frequently occur in anthropometrically derived body composition indices and paucity of such information prompted us to explore the nature and usage of YY paradox. Methods: Body composition of 89 medical students from North India was studied using bioelectric-impedance fat monitor and anthropometric techniques. YY phenomenon were identified and studied in 1) same BMI but different body fat (Classic YY), 2) same BVI but different BMI (yy BVI~BMI), 3) same Skeletal mass/body fat but different body volume (yy SKM/BF ~ BV) and 4) same Lean Body mass/body fat but different body volume (yy LBM/BF ~ BV). Results: The study population comprised young adults aged 18 -26 years. Males comprised 51.7 % of the study group. YY phenomenon was found in 44 individuals with respect to same BMI but different body fat; 47 individuals of same BVI but different BMI. Of all the indices studied, lowest number of YYs were found in yy LBM/BF ~ BV index. 14.6% study subjects had high visceral fat. Odds Ratio (OR) for high visceral fat in all the studied indices among subjects showing yy-phenomenon and those not showing yy-phenomenon revealed an OR of 1.09 (CI 0.3-3.7) for yy LBM/BF ~ BV index. This suggests that high visceral fat (VF) is the same in both groups and implies that there is no difference between the two arms i.e., YY and non-YY group contains approximately similar proportion of subjects with high VF. Conclusion: We found a high frequency of such paradoxes in this population and also demonstrated that these are not normally distributed. It is also suggested that a deeper look in this issue could be used for deriving predictive models for disease linked anthropometric markers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1476/', ['Global Health', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Community Medicine, Hind Institute of Medical Sciences']]
[u'Simplex: An individual-based platform for ecological modeling', ['Kenneth J Locey'], u'2015-11-03', u'A popular approach in ecological modeling explicitly simulates the biology and ecology of individual organisms. Individual-based models (IBM) allow ecological patterns and dynamics to be studied as they emerge from the individual level according to simulated principles and theories. IBMs also allow virtually any aspect of a simulated system to be tracked and recorded for later analysis. I developed a novel IBM platform (i.e, simplex) to explicitly simulate physiology, life history, resource-limited growth, fluctuating environmental dynamics, and community assembly and structure in both fluid and non-fluid environments. simplex accomplishes three primary tasks in keeping with its namesake (i.e., a generalized notion of a triangle to arbitrary dimensions). First, simplex assembles and runs stochastic ecological models from random combinations of over 20 state variables. Second, simplex stores the output of models and generates and stores animations. Third, simplex provides R Markdown files for analyzing simulated data. The simplex source code is freely available, includes the standard ODD description protocol, is open to community-based revision, includes unit testing and time testing, and has been developed to run on modest hardware.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1469/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Indiana University at Bloomington']]
[u'Can we set a global threshold age to define mature forests?', ['Philip Martin', 'Martin Jung', 'Francis Q Brearley', 'Relena Ribbons', 'Emily R Lines', 'Aerin L. Jacob'], u'2015-11-03', u'Globally mature forests appear to be increasing in biomass density. There is disagreement whether these increases are the result of increases in CO2 concentrations or a legacy effect of previous land-use. Recently, it was suggested that a threshold of 450 years should be used to define mature forests and that many forests increasing in biomass may be younger than this. However, the study making these suggestions failed to account for interactions between forest age and climate. Here we revisit the issue to identify: (1) how climate and forest age control global forest biomass density and (2) whether we can set a threshold age for mature forests. Using data from previously published studies we modelled the impacts of forest age and climate on biomass density using linear mixed effects models. We examined the potential biases in the dataset by comparing how representative it was of global mature forests in terms of its distribution, the climate space it occupied and the ages of the forests used. Biomass density increased with forest age, mean annual temperature and annual precipitation. Importantly the effect of forest age increased with increasing temperature, but the effect of precipitation decreased with increasing temperatures. The dataset was biased towards Northern hemisphere forests in relatively dry, cold climates. The dataset was also clearly biased towards forests <250 years of age. Our analysis suggests that there is not a single threshold age for forest maturity. Since climate interacts with forest age to determine biomass density a threshold age at which they reach equilibrium can only be determined locally. We caution against using biomass as the only determinant of forest maturity since this ignores forest biodiversity which often takes longer to recover. Future study of the influence of climate on forest biomass should aim to use the data currently being generated by long-term monitoring networks and satellite based observations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1474/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Centre for Conservation Ecology and Environmental Science, Bournemouth University', u'Center for Macroecology and Evolution, University of Copenhagen', u'School of Life Science, University of Sussex', u'School of Science and the Environment, Manchester Metropolitan University', u'School of Environment, Natural Resources and Geography, Bangor University', u'School of Geography, Queen Mary University of London', u'Department of Geography, University of Victoria']]
[u'A tide prediction and tide height control system for laboratory mesocosms', ['Luke P Miller', 'Jeremy D Long'], u'2015-11-03', u'Experimental mesocosm studies of rocky shore and estuarine intertidal systems may benefit from the application of natural tide cycles to better replicate variation in immersion time, water depth, and attendant fluctuations in abiotic and edaphic conditions. Here we describe a stand-alone microcontroller tide prediction open-source software program, coupled with a mechanical tidal elevation control system, which allows continuous adjustment of aquarium water depths in synchrony with local tide cycles. We used this system to monitor the growth of Spartina foliosa marsh cordgrass and scale insect herbivores at three simulated shore elevations in laboratory mesocosms. Plant growth decreased with increasing shore elevation, while scale insect population growth on the plants was not strongly affected by immersion time. This system shows promise for a range of laboratory mesocosm studies where natural tide cycling could impact organism performance or behavior, while the tide prediction system could additionally be utilized in field experiments where treatments need to be applied at certain stages of the tide cycle.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1473/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Hopkins Marine Station, Stanford University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, San Jose State University', u'Coastal and Marine Institute Laboratory, San Diego State University']]
[u'Frequency distribution and mean comparisons of red light absorbance-transmittance of the e1 leaf sectors of five pipeline maize hybrids during early grain filling in subtropical winter', ['Nav Raj Adhikari', 'Surya Kant Ghimire', 'Shrawan Kumar Sah', 'Keshab Babu Koirala'], u'2015-11-03', u'Background: Crop scientist\u2019s curiosities were to examine variation in photosynthetic sectors of grain filler leaf or flag leaf of any major crop species. Crop scientists including plant breeders too will be privileged from the findings. So it includes such precision evaluation of five single cross pipeline hybrids (Hs 6, 112, 14, 113 and 109) of yellow maize using red light absorbance-transmittance (RAT) measure by chlorophyll meter SPAD 502 before their release as cultivars. Materials and methods: For it, five pipeline hybrids were examined from two RCBD trials that they were in a big research plot with uniform soil fertility level and with the same control environment. Each of the trials was conducted planting the seeds of the fifteen newly bred separate hybrids on October 3, 2012 exposing their flowering and early grain filling to the natural winter in the subtropical region in Nepal. Five plants of the pipeline hybrids of the fifteen plots of three replications were randomly selected and tagged before tassel emergence. After about one month of anthesis, one hundred observations of the RAT SPAD measures were taken from the chlorophyll meter from the just-above-ear (e1) leaf of each of the selected plants of the hybrids of 180 to 185 days of crop maturity in three days from 99 to 101 days after sowing (DAS). Results and discussion: From analysis of frequency distribution of the RAT SPAD measures of the e1 leaf sectors, it is not necessary that hybrids that demonstrates curve with high kurtosis and high RAT SPAD measures always yield higher. Among the five hybrids, second highest grain yielding hybrid 112 had least leaf sectors of very low RAT SPAD measures. Besides, the hybrid 112 has been found least skewed and least peaked among the five hybrids. Furthermore, the hybrid 112 displayed least coefficient of variation and standard deviation among the 1500 RAT SPAD readings of its e1 leaf sectors. From the mean analysis through DMRT (Duncan Multiple Range Test), the twenty four averages have been found almost non-significant different among themselves inside each of the five hybrids. Single reading and four reading averages were non-significant different to one hundred reading average of each of the fifteen selected plants. Besides, the study also implies that a single reading from a leaf in the surrounding region of the topmost ear in five randomly selected plants can suffice to reflect the average SPAD measure of the particular leaf if the readings are from the e1 leaf. But, it can also be concluded that the similar non-significant nature of average central leaves around the top ear node. The mean comparison also gives useful information about the methodology of taking SPAD observations and how many readings are enough for the study of RAT, chl and N concentration in maize leaves. The paper includes logic of taking e1 leaf for RAT SPAD observations in discussion section.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1468/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'Plant Breeding Department, Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science, Tribhuvan University, Nepal', u'Department of Genetics and Plant Breeding, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'Department of Agronomy, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'Planning Division, Nepal Agriculture and Researh Council']]
[u'A newly developed dispersal capacity metric indicates the succession of benthic invertebrates in restored rivers', ['Fengqing Li', 'Andrea Sundermann', 'Stefan Stoll', 'Peter Haase'], u'2015-11-03', u'Dispersal capacity plays a fundamental role in the riverine benthic invertebrate colonization of new habitats that emerges following flash floods or restoration. However, an appropriate measure of dispersal capacity for benthic invertebrates is still lacking. The dispersal of benthic invertebrates occurs mainly during the aquatic (larval) and aerial (adult) life stages, and the dispersal of each life stage can be further subdivided into active and passive modes. Based on these four possible dispersal modes, we first developed a simple metric to estimate the dispersal capacity for 528 benthic invertebrate taxa by incorporating a weight for each mode. Second, we tested this metric using benthic invertebrate community data from a) 23 large restored river sites with improvements of river bottom habitats dating back 1 to 10 years, b) 23 unrestored sites, and c) 298 adjacent surrounding sites in the low mountain and lowland areas of Germany. We hypothesize that our metric will reflect the temporal succession process of benthic invertebrate communities colonizing the restored sites, whereas no temporal changes are expected in the unrestored and surrounding sites. By applying our metric to these three river treatment categories, we found that the average dispersal capacity of benthic invertebrate communities in the restored sites significantly decreased in the early years following restoration, whereas there were no changes in either the unrestored or the surrounding sites. After all taxa had been divided into quartiles representing weak to strong dispersers, this pattern became even more obvious; strong dispersers colonized the restored sites during the first year after restoration and then significantly decreased over time, whereas weak dispersers continued to increase. The successful application of our metric to river restoration might be promising in further applications of this metric, for example, in assessments of rivers or metacommunity structure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/911/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of River Ecology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute and Natural History Museum Frankfurt']]
[u'Do modern theories of biodiversity fail to predict commonness and rarity among microbes?', ['William R Shoemaker', 'Kenneth J Locey', 'Jay T Lennon'], u'2015-11-01', u'Theories of biodiversity seek to predict and unify patterns of commonness and rarity. Maximum entropy theory of ecology (METE) is among the most unifying and powerful theories of biodiversity, explaining >90% of variation in abundance among species of plant and animal using the total number of individuals (N0) and number of species. However, METE has yet been tested among the most abundant and diverse organisms on Earth, i.e., microorganisms. Using 20,456 sites of microbial communities, we show that METE only explains 0 to 60% of variation in abundance and increasingly fails for larger N0. In contrast, a more uneven distribution with a maximum entropy solution, the Zipf, often explains >90% of variation among microbes and performs better as N0 increases. Our findings suggest that theories of biodiversity could produce accurate predictions across the tree of life and scales of abundance if they capture how disparities in abundance increase with N0.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1450/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Indiana University at Bloomington']]
[u'An unusual archosauriform tooth increases known tetrapod diversity in the lower portion of the Chinle Formation (Late Triassic) of southeastern Utah, USA', ['Andres Lopez', 'Isabella St. Aude', 'David Alderete', 'David Alvarez', 'Hannah Aultman', 'Dominique Busch', 'Rogelio Bustamante', 'Leah Cirks', 'Martin Lopez', 'Adriana Moncada', 'Elizabeth Ortega', 'Carlos Verdugo', 'Robert J Gay'], u'2015-11-01', u'An unusual tetrapod tooth was discovered in the Upper Triassic Chinle Formation of southeastern Utah. The tooth was originally hypothesized to pertain to Revueltosaurus, but further investigations have rejected that hypothesis. In this paper, we compare MNA V10668 to other known fossil tooth crowns from the Chinle Formation and assign the tooth to the least inclusive clade currently available, Archosauriformes, based on the presence of mesial and distal serrations, a distal keel, and a conical mesiodistal profile. Using data found in other publications and pictures of other teeth, we compare this specimen to other Triassic dental taxa. MNA V10668 shares some similarities with Crosbysaurus, Tecovasaurus, and several other named taxa, including a teardrop-shaped labiolingual profile, but possesses a unique combination of characteristics not found in other archosauromorph teeth. This increases the known diversity of archosauromorphs from the Chinle Formation and represents the first tooth of this morphotype to be found from Utah in the Late Triassic.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1110/', ['Biodiversity', 'Paleontology'], [u'Science Department, Mission Heights Preparatory High School', u'University of Arizona']]
[u'De novo clustering methods out-perform reference-based methods for assigning 16S rRNA gene sequences to operational taxonomic units', ['Sarah L Westcott', 'Patrick Schloss'], u'2015-10-30', u'Background. 16S rRNA gene sequences are routinely assigned to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) that are then used to analyze complex microbial communities. A number of methods have been employed to carry out the assignment of 16S rRNA gene sequences to OTUs leading to confusion over which method is the most rigorous. A recent study suggested that a clustering method should be selected based on its ability to generate stable OTU assignments that do not change as additional sequences are added to the dataset. In contrast, we contend that the ability of the method to properly represent the distances between the sequences is more important. Methods. Our analysis implemented five de novo clustering algorithms including the single linkage, complete linkage, average linkage, abundance-based greedy clustering, distance-based greedy clustering, and the open and closed-reference methods. Using two previously published datasets we used the Matthew\u2019s Correlation Coefficient (MCC) to assess the stability and quality of OTU assignments. Results. The stability of OTU assignments did not reflect the quality of the assignments. Depending on the dataset being analyzed, the average linkage and the distance and abundance-based greedy clustering methods generated more robust OTUs than the open and closed-reference methods. We also demonstrated that for the greedy algorithms VSEARCH produced assignments that were comparable to those produced by USEARCH making VSEARCH a viable free and open source alternative to USEARCH. Further interrogation of the reference-based methods indicated that when USEARCH is used to identify the closest reference, the OTU assignments were sensitive to the order of the reference sequences because the reference sequences can be identical over the region being considered. More troubling was the observation that while both USEARCH and VSEARCH have a high level of sensitivity to detect reference sequences, the specificity of those matches was poor relative to the true best match. Discussion. Our analysis calls into question the quality and stability of OTU assignments generated by the open and closed-reference methods as implemented in current version of QIIME. This study demonstrates that de novo methods are the most rigorous and that the quality of clustering assignments needs to be assessed for multiple methods to identify the optimal clustering method for a particular dataset.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1466/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan - Ann Arbor']]
[u'Analysis of the optimal duration of behavioral observations based on an automated continuous monitoring system in tree swallows (Tachycineta bicolor): is one hour good enough?', ['Adam Z Lendvai', 'Caglar Akcay', 'Jenny Q Ouyang', 'Roslyn Dakin', 'Alice D Domalik', 'Prianka S St John', 'Mark T Stanback', 'Ignacio T Moore', 'Fran Bonier'], u'2015-10-30', u'Studies of animal behavior often rely on human observation, which introduces a number of limitations on sampling. Recent developments in automated logging of behaviors make it possible to circumvent some of these problems. Once verified for efficacy and accuracy, these automated systems can be used to determine optimal sampling regimes for behavioral studies. Here, we used a radio-frequency identification (RFID) system to quantify parental effort in a bi-parental songbird species: the tree swallow (Tachycineta bicolor). We found that the accuracy of the RFID monitoring system was similar to that of video-recorded behavioral observations for quantifying parental visits. Using RFID monitoring, we also quantified the optimum duration of sampling periods for male and female parental effort by looking at the relationship between nest visit rates estimated from sampling periods with different durations and the total visit numbers for the day. The optimum sampling duration (the shortest observation time that explained the most variation in total daily visits per unit time) was 1h for both sexes. These results show that RFID and other automated technologies can be used to quantify behavior when human observation is constrained, and the information from these monitoring technologies can be useful for evaluating the efficacy of human observation methods.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1403/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech', u'The Netherlands Institute of Ecology', u'Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia', u"Department of Biology, Queen's University", u'Department of Biology, Davidson College']]
[u'Design and validation of a next generation sequencing assay for hereditary breast and ovarian cancer', ['Hyunseok P. Kang', 'Jared R Maguire', 'Clement S Chu', 'Imran S. Haque', 'Henry Lai', 'Rebecca Mar-Heyming', 'Kaylene Ready', 'Valentina S. Vysotskaia', 'Eric A. Evans'], u'2015-10-30', u'Hereditary breast and ovarian cancer syndrome, caused by a germline deleterious variant in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes, is characterized by an increased risk for breast, ovarian, pancreatic and other cancers. Identification of those who have a BRCA1/2 mutation is important so that they can take advantage of genetic counseling, screening, and potentially life-saving prevention strategies. We describe the design and analytic validation of the Counsyl Inherited Cancer Screen, a next-generation-sequencing-based test to detect pathogenic variation in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes. We demonstrate that the test is capable of detecting single-nucleotide variants (SNVs), short insertions and deletions (indels), and copy-number variants (CNVs, also known as large rearrangements) with zero errors over a 96-sample validation set consisting of samples from cell lines and deidentified patient samples, including the well-characterized NA12878 sample from HapMap/1000 Genomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1463/', ['Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Oncology', "Women's Health"], [u'Counsyl Inc.']]
[u'How sex acts scale with the number of sex partners: evidence from Chlamydia trachomatis data and implications for control', ['Christian L Althaus', 'Marc Choisy', 'Samuel Alizon'], u'2015-10-30', u'Mathematical models are frequently used to assess the impact of control interventions for Chlamydia trachomatis and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Modeling approaches that stratify the population by the number of sex partners often assume the transmission risk per partner to be constant. However, sexual behavior data suggests that people with many partners share less sex acts per partner than people with fewer partners. This should lower the risk of transmission per partner for highly sexually active individuals and could have important epidemiological consequences for STI transmission. We devise a new epidemiological model that we fit to chlamydia prevalence data from Natsal-2 and CSF, two population-based probability sample surveys of sexual behavior in Britain and France. Compared to a standard model where the transmission risk per partner is constant, a model with realistic numbers of sex acts per partner provides a better fit to the data. Furthermore, the improved model provides evidence for strong assortative mixing among individuals with different numbers of sex partners. Our results suggest that all chlamydia infected individuals with one or more new heterosexual partners per year contribute significantly to ongoing transmission, underlining that control interventions should be aimed towards all sexually active young adults.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/940/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Statistics'], [u'Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (ISPM), University of Bern', u'Laboratoire MIVEGEC (UMR CNRS 5290, IRD 224, UM1, UM2)', u'Oxford University Clinical Research Unit']]
[u'Effects of alfalfa saponin extract on the performance and cholesterol metabolism of laying hens', ['Senhao Zhang', 'Yinghua Shi', 'Minggen Liang', 'Jia Li', 'Chengzhang Wang'], u'2015-10-30', u'The experiment was performed to determine the effects of alfalfa saponin extract (ASE) on the performance and cholesterol metabolism of laying hens. A total of 150 Hy-Line Brown hens with 28 weeks old, were randomly divided into five treatment groups (five replicates per treatment with six hens per replicate). Diets containing 0, 60, 120, 240, and 480 mg ASE/kg were fed to hens for 77 days. The shell thickness had a trend to increase. The yolk cholesterol and liver bile acid decreased significantly (ASE 60 and 480 mg/kg groups for yolk cholesterol, and ASE 60 and 240 mg/kg groups for liver bile acid). Fecal bile acid has an elevation trend as ASE increased. The expression of very low density apolipoprotein-\u2161 (apoVLDL-\u2161) gene was not affected by adding ASE. However, the mRNA expression of 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase gene and cholesterol 7\u03b1-hydroxylase (CYP7A1) gene were significantly up-regulated. The mRNA expression of very-low-density-lipoprotein receptor(VLDLR) gene was suppressed due to adding ASE supplementation in the diet. These findings indicated that dietary ASE could regulate cholesterol levels in hens by up-regulating the mRNA levels of HMG-CoA and CYP7A1 and suppressing the expression of VLDLR.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1461/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'College of Animal Science and Veterinary Medicine, Henan Agricultural University']]
[u'Cross-platform normalization of microarray and RNA-seq data for machine learning applications', ['Jeffrey A Thompson', 'Jie Tan', 'Casey S Greene'], u'2015-10-30', u'Large, publicly available gene expression datasets are often analyzed with the aid of machine learning algorithms. Although RNA-seq is increasingly the technology of choice, a wealth of expression data already exist in the form of microarray data. If machine learning models built from legacy data can be applied to RNA-seq data, larger, more diverse training datasets can be created and validation can be performed on newly generated data. We developed Training Distribution Matching (TDM), which transforms RNA-seq data for use with models constructed from legacy platforms. We evaluated TDM, as well as quantile normalization and a simple log2 transformation, on both simulated and biological datasets of gene expression. Our evaluation included both supervised and unsupervised machine learning approaches. We found that TDM exhibited consistently strong performance across settings and that quantile normalization also performed well in many circumstances. We also provide a TDM package for the R programming language.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1460/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Genetics, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth', u'Quantitative Biomedical Sciences Program, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth', u'Molecular and Cellular Biology, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth', u'Department of Systems Pharmacology and Translational Therapeutics, University of Pennsylvania', u'Institute for Translational Medicine and Therapeutics, University of Pennsylvania', u'Institute for Biomedical Informatics, University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Using machine translation for converting Python 2 to Python 3 code', ['Karan Aggarwal', 'Mohammad Salameh', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2015-10-29', u'In this paper, we have tried to use statistical machine translation in order to convert Python 2 code to Python 3 code. We use data from two projects and achieve a high BLEU score. We also investigate the cross-project training and testing to analyze the errors so as to ascertain differences with previous case. We have described a pilot study on modeling programming languages as natural language to build translation models on the lines of natural languages. This can be further worked on to translate between versions of a programming language or cross-programming-languages code translation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1459/', ['Natural Language and Speech', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Influence of whole-wheat consumption on fecal microbial ecology of obese diabetic mice', ['Jose F Garcia-Mazcorro', 'Ivan Ivanov', 'David A. Mills', 'Giuliana Noratto'], u'2015-10-28', u'The digestive tract of mammals and other animals is colonized by trillions of metabolically active microorganisms. Changes in the gut microbiota have been associated with obesity in both humans and laboratory animals. Dietary modifications can often modulate the obese gut microbial ecosystem towards a more healthy state. This phenomenon should preferably be studied using dietary ingredients that are relevant to human nutrition. This study was designed to evaluate the influence of whole-wheat, a food ingredient with several beneficial properties, on gut microorganisms of obese diabetic mice. Diabetic (db/db) mice were fed standard (obese-control) or WW isocaloric diets (WW group) for eight weeks; non-obese mice were used as control (lean-control). High-throughput sequencing using the MiSeq platform coupled with freely-available computational tools and quantitative real-time PCR were used to analyze fecal bacterial 16S rRNA gene sequences. SCFAs were measured in feces using HPLC-PDA. Results showed no statistical difference in final body weights between the obese-control and the WW group. Almost 9,000 different bacterial species (Operational Taxonomic Units at 97% similarity) were detected in all mice but the bacterial diversity (number of OTUs) did not differ among the treatment groups. The abundance of Ruminococcaceae, a family containing several butyrate-producing bacteria, was found to be higher in obese (median: 6.9%) and WW-supplemented mice (5.6%) compared to lean (2.7%, p = 0.02, Kruskal-Wallis test). Fecal concentrations of butyrate were higher in obese (average: 2.91 mmol/mg of feces) but especially in WW-supplemented mice (4.27 mmol/mg) compared to lean controls (0.97 mmol/mg), while fecal succinic acid was lower in the WW group compared to obese but especially to the lean group. WW consumption was associated with ~3 times more relative abundance of Lactobacillus spp. compared to both obese and lean control mice. PCoA plots of weighted UniFrac distances revealed a distinctive clustering of lean microbial communities separately from both obese and WW-supplemented mice (p = 0.001, ANOSIM test). Predictive metagenome analysis using PICRUSt revealed significant differences in several metabolic features of the microbiota among the treatment groups, including fatty acid biosynthesis, carbohydrate and energy metabolism as well as synthesis and degradation of ketone bodies (p < 0.01). However, obese and WW groups tended to share more similar abundances of gene families compared to lean mice. Using an in vivo model of obesity and diabetes, this study suggests that daily WW supplementation for eight weeks may not be enough to influence body weight or to output a lean-like microbiome, both taxonomically and metabolically. However, WW-supplementation was associated with several statistically significant differences in the gut microbiome compared to obese controls that deserve further investigation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1458/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Microbiology', 'Nutrition', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Nuevo Le\xf3n', u'VTPP, College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University', u'Department of Food Science and Technology, University of California, Davis', u'School of Food Science, Washington State University']]
[u'Effects of simulated darkness on the affective appraisal of a virtual environment', ['Alexander Toet', 'Joske M. Houtkamp', 'Paul E. Vreugdenhil'], u'2015-10-27', u'This study investigated whether simulated darkness influences the affective appraisal of a desktop virtual environment (VE). In the real world darkness often evokes thoughts of vulnerability, threat, and danger, and may automatically precipitate emotional responses consonant with those thoughts (fear of darkness). This influences the affective appraisal of a given environment after dark and the way humans behave in that environment in conditions of low lighting. Desktop VEs are increasingly deployed to study the effects of environmental qualities and (architectural or lighting) interventions on human behaviour and feelings of safety. Their (ecological) validity for these purposes depends critically on their ability to correctly address the user\u2019s cognitive and affective experience. However, it is currently not known how and to what extent simulated darkness in desktop (i.e., non-immersive) VEs affects the user\u2019s affective appraisal of the represented environment. In this study young female volunteers explored either a daytime or a night-time version of a desktop VE representing a deserted prototypical Dutch polder landscape. The affective appraisal of the VE and the emotional response of the participants were measured through self-report. To enhance the personal relevance of the simulation, a fraction of the participants was led to believe that the virtual exploration tour would prepare them for a follow-up tour through the real world counterpart of the VE. The results show that the VE was appraised as slightly less pleasant and more arousing in simulated darkness (compared to a daylight) condition. The fictitious follow-up assignment had no emotional effects and did not influence the affective appraisal of the VE. Further research is required to assess on the validity of desktop VEs for both etiological (e.g., the effects of signs of darkness on navigation behaviour and fear of crime) and intervention (e.g., effects of street lighting on feelings of safety) research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1456/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'TNO', u'Department of Information and Computing Sciences, Utrecht University', u'Spatial Knowledge Systems, Alterra, Wageningen University and Research Center']]
[u'Effects of 16S rDNA sampling on estimates of endosymbiont lineages in sucking lice', ['Julie M Allen', 'J Gordon Burleigh', 'Jessica E Light', 'David L Reed'], u'2015-10-27', u'Co-evolution between insects and their endosymbiotic bacteria can be detected by constructing and comparing their phylogenetic trees. Even though taxon sampling can greatly affect phylogenetic and co-evolutionary inference, most hypotheses of endosymbiont relationships and estimates of the number of endosymbiont lineages within a host group have used only a small percentage of available bacterial sequences. Here we examined how different sampling strategies of Gammaproteobacteria sequences affect estimates of the number of endosymbiont lineages in parasitic sucking lice (Insecta: Phthirapatera: Anoplura). We estimated the number of louse endosymbiont lineages using both newly obtained and previously sequenced 16S rDNA bacterial sequences and more than 42,000 16S rDNA sequences from other Gammaproteobacteria. We also performed parametric and nonparametric bootstrapping experiments to examine the effects of phylogenetic error and uncertainty on these estimates. We found that sampling of 16S rDNA sequences affected the estimates of endosymbiont diversity in sucking lice until we reached a threshold of genetic diversity. Sampling by maximizing the diversity of 16S rDNA sequences was more efficient than simply randomly sampling available 16S rDNA sequences. Although simulation results support the finding of multiple endosymbiont lineages in sucking lice, the bootstrap results suggest that there is still uncertainty in estimates of the number of endosymbiont origins inferred from 16S rDNA alone.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1457/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Illinois Natural History Survey, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign', u'Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida', u'Biology Department, University of Florida', u'Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences, Texas A&M University']]
[u'Testing a new idea to solve the P = NP problem with mathematical induction', ['Yubin Huang'], u'2015-10-27', u'Background. P and NP are two classes (sets) of languages in Computer Science. An open problem is whether P = NP. This paper tests a new idea to compare the two language sets and attempts to prove that these two language sets consist of same languages by elementary mathematical methods and basic knowledge of Turing machine. Methods. By introducing a filter function C(M,w) that is the number of configurations which have more than one children (nondeterministic moves) in the shortest accept computation path of a nondeterministic Turing machine M for input w, for any language L(M) \u2208 NP, we can define a series of its subsets, Li(M) = {w | w \u2208 L(M) \u2227 C(M,w) \u2264 i}, and a series of the subsets of NP as Li = {Li(M) | \u2200M \u2219 L(M) \u2208 NP}. The nondeterministic multi-tape Turing machine is used to bridge two language sets Li and Li+1, by simulating the (i+1)-th nondeterministic move deterministically in multiple work tapes, to reduce one (the last) nondeterministic move. Results. The main result is that, with the above methods, the language set Li+1, which seems more powerful, can be proved to be a subset of Li. This result collapses Li \u2286 P for all i \u2208 N. With NP = \u22c3i\u2208NLi, it is clear that NP \u2286 P. Because by definition P \u2286 NP, we have P = NP. Discussion. There can be other ways to define the subsets Li and prove the same result. The result can be extended to cover any sets of time functions C, if \u2200f \u2219 f \u2208 C \u21d2 f2 \u2208 C, then DTIME(C) = NTIME(C). This paper does not show any ways to find a solution in P for the problem known in NP.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1455/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'N/A, N/A']]
[u'Structure and stability of recombinant bovine odorant-binding protein: III. Peculiarities of the wild type bOBP unfolding in crowded milieu', ['Olga V Stepanenko', 'Denis O Roginskii', 'Olesya V Stepanenko', 'Irina M Kuznetsova', 'Vladimir N Uversky', 'Konstantin K Turoverov'], u'2015-10-27', u'Contrarily to the majority of the members of the lipocalin family, which are stable monomers with the specific OBP fold (a \u03b2-barrel consisting of a 8-stranded anti-parallel \u03b2-sheet followed by a short \u03b1-helical segment, a ninth \u03b2-strand, and a disordered C-terminal tail) and a conserved disulfide bond, bovine odorant-binding protein (bOBP) does not have such a disulfide bond and forms a domain-swapped dimer that involves crossing the \u03b1-helical region from each monomer over the \u03b2-barrel of the other monomer. Furthermore, although natural bOBP isolated from bovine tissues exists as a stable domain-swapped dimer, recombinant bOBP has decreased dimerization potential and therefore exists as a mixture of monomeric and dimeric variants. In this article, we investigated the effect model crowding agents of similar chemical nature but different molecular mass on conformational stability of the recombinant bOBP. These experiments were conducted in order shed light on the potential influence of model crowded environment on the unfolding-refolding equilibrium. To this end, we looked at the influence of PEG-600, PEG-4000, and PEG-12000 in concentrations of 80, 150, and 300 mg/mL on the equilibrium unfolding and refolding transitions induced in the recombinant bOBP by guanidine hydrochloride.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1454/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Laboratory of structural dynamics, stability and folding of proteins, Institute of Cytology, Russian Academy of Sciences', u'Department of Molecular Medicine, University of South Florida']]
[u'Corals of the genus Porites are a locally abundant component of the epibiont community on mangrove prop roots at Calabash Caye, Turneffe Atoll, Belize', ['Zachary A Bengtsson', 'Kirsten M Kuhn', 'Anya T Battaglino', 'Allen S Li', 'Matthew N Talbot', 'Marzie Wafapoor', 'Calder J Atta', 'Michael B Kowalski', 'Sarah P Margolis', 'Ekaterina A Rar', 'Elizabeth M Burmester', 'Kathryn C Lesneski', 'Karina Scavo', 'Les Kaufman', 'Nathan L Stewart', 'John R Finnerty'], u'2015-10-27', u'Mangrove prop roots support diverse epibiont communities, but they are generally regarded as inhospitable for corals. However, recent reports have documented corals thriving on mangrove roots in the U.S. Virgin Islands and Cuba, and it has been proposed that mangroves may provide a refuge from environmental conditions that trigger coral mortality on nearby reefs. It also raises interesting questions about the potential evolutionary significance of coral populations in mangrove forest. We investigated diverse mangrove habitats for the presence of corals at Calabash Caye, Belize, part of a recently designated marine reserve on Turneffe Atoll. Here we present data on the distribution, size and morphology of 127 colonies of branching Porites found in a survey of 1858 meters of mangrove prop roots fringing three qualitatively distinct bodies of water: a high-flow channel, a moderate-flow creek, and a low-flow mangrove pond. The distribution of Porites was highly clumped, with 108 colonies occurring in a 178-meter stretch of shoreline along the high flow channel. Colony morphology varied widely, from bushy colonies with more than 40 branch tips per 1000 cm3 of ecological volume, to spindly colonies with fewer than 10 branch tips per 1000 cm3, to new recruits that have not yet developed distinct branches. Comparisons of the same coral-bearing roots in 2013 and 2014 revealed that colonies can experience substantial growth in a year\u2019s time. We also document a much more diverse coral fauna living in the mangroves at Crooked Creek, a high flow environment on the western edge of Turneffe Atoll. The data described here contribute to an emerging picture of mangroves as potentially important habitat for corals, while suggesting that different types of mangrove habitat vary in their suitability for different species of coral. Future studies are needed to identify the critical environmental features of mangrove habitats that support coral, to further characterize those corals that can utilize mangrove habitat, and to investigate potential connectivity between coral populations in mangroves and nearby reef habitats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1453/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Biology Department, Boston University', u'Marine Program, Boston University']]
[u'Structure and stability of recombinant bovine odorant-binding protein: II. Unfolding of the monomeric forms', ['Olga V Stepanenko', 'Denis O Roginskii', 'Olesya V Stepanenko', 'Irina M Kuznetsova', 'Vladimir N Uversky', 'Konstantin K Turoverov'], u'2015-10-27', u'In a family of monomeric odorant-binding proteins (OBPs), bovine OBP (bOBP), that lacks conserved disulfide bond found in other OBPs, occupies unique niche because of its ability to form domain-swapped dimers. In this study, we analyzed conformational stabilities of the recombinant bOBP and its monomeric variants, the bOBP-Gly121+ mutant containing an additional glycine residue after the residue 121 of the bOBP, and the GCC-bOBP mutant obtained from the bOBP-Gly121+ form by introduction of the Trp64Cys/His155Cys double mutation to restore the canonical disulfide bond. We also analyzed the effect of the natural ligand binding on the conformational stabilities of these bOBP variants. Our data are consistent with the conclusion that the unfolding-refolding pathways of the recombinant bOBP and its mutant monomeric forms bOBP-Gly121+ and GCC-bOBP are similar and do not depend on the oligomeric status of the protein. This clearly shows that the information on the unfolding-refolding mechanism is encoded in the structure of the bOBP monomers. However, the process of the bOBP unfolding is significantly complicated by the formation of the domain-swapped dimer, and the rates of the unfolding-refolding reactions essentially depend on the conditions in which the protein is located.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1452/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Laboratory of structural dynamics, stability and folding of proteins, Institute of Cytology, Russian Academy of Sciences', u'Department of Molecular Medicine, University of South Florida']]
[u'The fitness consequences of honesty: under-signalers have a survival advantage in song sparrows', ['Caglar Akcay', 'S. Elizabeth Campbell', 'Michael D. Beecher'], u'2015-10-26', u'How honest or reliable signaling can evolve and be maintained has been a major question in evolutionary biology. The question is especially puzzling for a particular class of signals used in aggressive interactions: threat signals. Here we report a study on song sparrows (Melospiza melodia) in which we assayed males with playbacks on their territories to quantify their aggressiveness (flights and close proximity) and aggressive signaling levels (rates of soft song, a close range signal reliably predicting attack) and asked whether these traits affect individuals\u2019 survival on territory. We found that the effect of aggressive signaling via soft song interacted with aggressive behaviors such that there was a negative correlational selection: among males with low aggression, those males that signaled at higher levels (over-signalers) had higher survival whereas among males with high aggression those that signaled at low levels (under-signalers) survived longer. In other words, males who deviate from reliable signaling have a survival advantage. These results, along with previous research that suggested most of the deviation from reliable signaling in this system is in the form of under-signaling (high aggression males signaling at low levels) pose a puzzle for future research on how this reliable signaling system is maintained.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1195/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech', u'Department of Psychology, University of Washington', u'Department of Biology, University of Washington']]
[u'Homeotic transformations and number changes in the vertebral column of Triturus newts', ['Maja Slijepcevic', 'Frietson F Galis', 'Jan W Arntzen', 'Ana Ivanovic'], u'2015-10-26', u'We explored intraspecific variation in vertebral formulae, more specifically the variation in the number of thoracic vertebrae and frequencies of transitional sacral vertebrae in Triturus newts (Caudata: Salamandridae). Within salamandrid salamanders this monophyletic group shows the highest disparity in the number of thoracic vertebrae and considerable intraspecific variation in the number of thoracic vertebrae. Triturus species also differ in their ecological preferences, from predominantly terrestrial to largely aquatic. Following Geoffroy St. Hilaire\u2019s and Darwin\u2019s rule which states that structures with a large number of serially homologous repetitive elements are more variable than structures with smaller numbers, we hypothesized that the variation in vertebral formulae increases in more elongated species with a larger number of thoracic vertebrae. We furthermore hypothesized that the frequency of transitional vertebrae will be correlated with the variation in the number of thoracic vertebrae within the species. We also investigated potential effects of species hybridization on the vertebral formula. The proportion of individuals with a number of thoracic vertebrae different from the modal number and the range of variation in number of vertebrae significantly increased in species with a larger number of thoracic vertebrae. Contrary to our expectation, the frequencies of transitional vertebrae were not correlated with frequencies of change in the complete vertebrae number. The frequency of transitional sacral vertebra in hybrids did not significantly differ from that of the parental species. Such a pattern could be a result of selection pressure against transitional vertebrae and/or a bias towards the development of full vertebrae numbers. Although our data indicate relaxed selection for vertebral count changes in more elongated, aquatic species, more data on different selective pressures in species with different numbers of vertebrae in the two contrasting, terrestrial and aquatic environments are needed to test for causality.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1443/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute for Biological Research \u201cSini\u0161a Stankovi\u0107\u201d, University of Belgrade', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute of Zoology, Faculty of Biology, University of Belgrade']]
[u'Antibiotic-resistant Neisseria gonorrhoeae spread faster with more treatment, not more sexual partners', ['Stephanie M Fingerhuth', 'Sebastian Bonhoeffer', 'Nicola Low', 'Christian L Althaus'], u'2015-10-24', u'The sexually transmitted bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae has developed resistance to all antibiotic classes that have been used for treatment and strains resistant to multiple antibiotic classes have evolved. In many countries, there is only one antibiotic remaining for empirical N. gonorrhoeae treatment and antibiotic management to counteract resistance spread is urgently needed. Understanding dynamics and drivers of resistance spread can provide rationales for antibiotic management. In our study, we first used antibiotic resistance surveillance data to estimate the rates at which antibiotic-resistant N. gonorrhoeae spread in two host populations, heterosexual men (HetM) and men who have sex with men (MSM). We found higher rates of spread for MSM (0.86 to 2.38 y\u22121, mean doubling time: 6 months) compared to HetM (0.24 to 0.86 y\u22121, mean doubling time: 16 months). We then developed a dynamic transmission model to reproduce the observed dynamics of N. gonorrhoeae transmission in populations of heterosexual men and women (HMW) and MSM. We parameterized the model using sexual behavior data and calibrated it to N. gonorrhoeae prevalence and incidence data. In the model, antibiotic-resistant N. gonorrhoeae spread with a median rate of 0.88 y\u22121 in HMW and 3.12 y\u22121 in MSM. These rates correspond to median doubling times of 9 (HMW) and 3 (MSM) months. The model shows the difference in the host population\u2019s treatment rate rather than the difference in the number of sexual partners explains the differential spread of resistance. As higher treatment rates result in faster spread of antibiotic resistance, treatment recommendations for N. gonorrhoeae should carefully balance prevention of infection and avoidance of resistance spread.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1449/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Institute of Integrative Biology, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology,  Zurich', u'Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (ISPM), University of Bern']]
[u'Ten simple rules for digital data storage', ['Edmund Hart', 'Pauline Barmby', 'David LeBauer', 'Francois Michonneau', 'Sarah Mount', 'Timothee Poisot', 'Kara H Woo', 'Naupaka Zimmerman', 'Jeffrey W Hollister'], u'2015-10-23', u'Data is the central currency of science, but the nature of scientific data has changed dramatically with the rapid pace of technology. This change has led to the development of a wide variety of data formats, dataset sizes, data complexity, data use cases, and data sharing practices. Improvements in high throughput DNA sequencing, sustained institutional support for large sensor networks, and sky surveys with large-format digital cameras have created massive quantities of data. At the same time, the combination of increasingly diverse research teams and data aggregation in portals (e.g. for biodiversity data, GBIF or iDigBio) necessitates increased coordination among data collectors and institutions. As a consequence, \u201cdata\u201d can now mean anything from petabytes of information stored in professionally-maintained databases, through spreadsheets on a single computer, to hand-written tables in lab notebooks on shelves. All remain important, but data curation practices must continue to keep pace with the changes brought about by new forms and practices of data collection and storage.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1448/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Digital Libraries', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Vermont', u'Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Western Ontario', u'National Center for Supercomputing Applications and Institute for Genomic Biology, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign', u'iDigBio, Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida', u'Whitney Laboratory for Marine Bioscience, University of Florida', u"Department of Informatics, King's College London, University of London", u'D\xe9partement de Sciences Biologiques, University of Montreal', u'Center for Environmental Research, Education, and Outreach, Washington State University', u'School of Plant Sciences, University of Arizona', u'Atlantic Ecology Division, United States Environmental Protection Agency']]
[u'Mining PubMed for biomarker-disease associations to guide discovery', ['Walter J Jessen', 'Katherine T Landschulz', 'Thomas G Turi', 'Rachel Y Reams'], u'2015-10-23', u'Biomedical knowledge is growing exponentially; however, meta-knowledge around the data is often lacking. PubMed is a database comprising more than 21 million citations for biomedical literature from MEDLINE and additional life science journals dating back to the 1950s. To explore the use and frequency of biomarkers across human disease, we mined PubMed for biomarker-disease associations. We then ranked the top 100 linked diseases by relevance and mapped them to medical subject headings (MeSH) and, subsequently, to the Disease Ontology. To identify biomarkers for each disease, we queried Covance BioPathways, an online data resource that maps commercial biomarker assays to biological and disease pathways. We then integrated pathways-based information to describe both known and potential biomarkers as well as disease-associated genes/proteins for select diseases. This approach identifies therapeutic areas with candidate or validated biomarkers, and highlights those areas where a paucity of biomarkers exists.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1446/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Cardiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Immunology'], [u'Biomarker Center of Excellence, Covance']]
[u'A new Lower Triassic ichthyopterygian assemblage from Fossil Hill, Nevada', ['Neil P Kelley', 'Ryosuke Motani', 'Patrick Embree', 'Michael J Orchard'], u'2015-10-23', u'We report a new ichthyopterygian assemblage from Lower Triassic horizons of the Prida Formation at Fossil Hill in central Nevada. Although fragmentary, the specimens collected so far document a diverse fauna. One partial jaw exhibits isodont dentition with blunt tipped, mesiodistally compressed crowns and striated enamel. These features are shared with the Early Triassic genus Utatsusaurus known from coeval deposits in Japan and British Columbia. An additional specimen exhibits a different dentition characterized by relatively small, rounded posterior teeth resembling other Early Triassic ichthyopterygians particularly Grippia. This Nevada assemblage marks a southward latitudinal extension for Early Triassic ichthyopterygians along the eastern margin of Panthalassa and indicates repeated circum-oceanic dispersal events in Early Triassic ichthyopterygians.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1447/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Paleobiology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian', u'Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences, University of California, Davis', u'n/a', u'Natural Resources Canada - Geological Survey of Canada']]
[u'Structure and stability of recombinant bovine odorant-binding protein: I. Design and analysis of monomeric mutants', ['Olga V Stepanenko', 'Denis O Roginskii', 'Olesya V Stepanenko', 'Irina M Kuznetsova', 'Vladimir N Uversky', 'Konstantin K Turoverov'], u'2015-10-23', u'Bovine odorant-binding protein (bOBP) differs from other lipocalins by lacking the conserved disulfide bond and being able to form the domain-swapped dimers. To identify structural features responsible for the formation of the bOBP unique dimeric structure and to understand the role of the domain swapping on maintaining the native structure of the protein, structural properties of the recombinant wild type bOBP and its mutant that cannot dimerize via the domain swapping were analyzed. We also looked at the effect of the disulfide bond by designing a monomeric bOBPs with restored disulfide bond which is conserved in other lipocalins. Finally, to understand which features in the microenvironment of the bOBP tryptophan residues play a role in the defining peculiarities of the intrinsic fluorescence of this protein we designed and investigated single-tryptophan mutants of the monomeric bOBP. Our analysis revealed that the insertion of the glycine after the residue 121 of the bOBP prevents domain swapping and generates a stable monomeric protein bOBP-Gly121+. We also show that the restored disulfide bond in the GCC-bOBP mutant leads to the noticeable stabilization of the monomeric structure. Structural and functional analysis revealed that none of the amino acid substitutions introduced to the bOBP affected functional activity of the protein and that the ligand binding leads to the formation of a more compact and stable state of the recombinant bOBP and its mutant monomeric forms. Finally, analysis of the single-tryptophan mutants of the monomeric bOBP gave us a unique possibility to find peculiarities of the microenvironment of tryptophan residues which were not previously described.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1445/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Laboratory of structural dynamics, stability and folding of proteins, Institute of Cytology, Russian Academy of Science', u'Department of Molecular Medicine, University of South Florida']]
[u'Ground control point requirements for structure-from-motion derived topography in low-slope coastal environments', ['Evan B Goldstein', 'Amber R Oliver', 'Elsemarie deVries', 'Laura J Moore', 'Theo Jass'], u'2015-10-22', u'Vegetated coastal dunes grow as a result of feedbacks between vegetation and sand transport. Observing the coevolution of vegetation and the sand surface is therefore critical for unraveling the dynamics of coastal dune growth. Capturing synchronous topography and photography at high spatial resolution and high temporal frequency using traditional techniques (airplane-based aerial photography, LiDAR) is expensive and time-consuming. Structure-from-Motion combined with Multiview-Stereo, a photogrammetry workflow that uses low-cost, consumer-grade equipment, is an economical alternative to traditional collection methods. This workflow still requires the definition of ground control points (GCPs) \u2014 locations with known coordinates \u2014 to develop accurate digital surface models. In this contribution we address how the number of GCPs used impacts the accuracy of digital surface models. We flew a 9-foot single-line delta kite attached to a consumer-grade camera to photograph the beach and dune of Hog Island, VA, a site that contains 178 high precision GCPs over an area of ~0.025 km2 (as part of an ongoing field experiment). We then processed the 318 photographs using Agisoft Photoscan and compared the elevation accuracy of digital surface models rendered using SfM, with varying GCPs, to points surveyed by a total station. Our results suggest that there is \u2018diminishing returns\u2019 when greater than 10 GCPs are used. Results from this study can be used to inform future Structure-from-Motion studies using UAVs or kites in flat, low-sloping coastal environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1444/', ['Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Geological Sciences, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Division of Earth And Ocean Sciences, Duke University']]
[u'Strategies for improved rhamnolipid production by Pseudomonas aeruginosa PA1', ['Alexandre Soares dos Santos', 'Nei Pereira Jr', 'Denise M G Freire'], u'2015-10-22', u'Rhamnolipids are biosurfactants with potential for diversified industrial and environmental uses. The present study evaluated three strategies to increase the production of rhamnolipid-type biosurfactants produced by Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain PA1. The influence of pH, the addition of endogenous autoinducers and the use of a fed batch process were examined. The culture medium adjusted to pH 7.0 was the most productive. Furthermore, the pH of the culture medium had a measurable effect on the ratio of mono- and dirhamnolipids synthesized. At pH values below 7.3, the proportion of monorhamnolipids decreased from 45 to 24%. Additionally, recycling 20% of the spent culture medium where P. aeruginosa was grown up to the later stationary phase was responsible for a 100% increase in rhamnolipid volumetric productivity in the new culture medium. Finally, the use of fed batch operation under conditions of limited nitrogen resulted in a 3.8-fold increase in the amount of rhamnolipids produced (1.29 g L-1 to 4.90 g L-1, as rhamnose). These results offer promising paths to optimize processes for the production of rhamnolipids.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1442/', ['Biotechnology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Basic Science / Faculty of Biological Science and Health, Universidade Federal dos Vales do Jequitinhonha e Mucuri', u'Department of Biochemical Engineering / School of Chemistry, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro', u'Department of Biochemistry / Institute of Chemistry, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Realization of multiple neural activity resolutions via multidimensional ensemble empirical mode decomposition of calcium imaging data: a proof of concept', ['Samuel Akwei-Sekyere'], u'2015-10-21', u'One of the goals of systems and computational neuroscience is to understand how information is processed by a single neuron and integrated by a network of neurons. A plausible approach to identifying spatial neighborhoods of the brain that host potential neural networks of interest is by observing spatially-bounded aggregates of neural activity. To this end, the potential of the multidimensional ensemble empirical mode decomposition algorithm in extracting multiple resolutions of neural activity from calcium imaging data is evaluated.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1441/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Neuroscience Program, Michigan State University', u'Department of Mathematics, Michigan State University']]
[u'Emotion detection from natural walking', ['Liqing Cui', 'Shun Li', 'Tingshao Zhu'], u'2015-10-20', u"Emotion identification, which aims to determine a person's affective state automatically, has immense potential value in many areas, such as action tendency, health care, psychological detection and human-computer (robot) interaction. In this paper, we provide a novel method for identifying emotion from natural walking. After obtaining the three-axis acceleration data of wrist and ankle recorded by smartphone, we run a moving average filter with different window size w, then cut actual data into slices. 114 features are extracted from each slice, and principal component analysis(PCA) is used for feature selection. We train SVM, Decision Tree, Multilayerperception, Random Tree and Random Forest classification models, and compare the accuracy of emotion identification using different datasets (wrist vs. ankle) in different models. Results show that acceleration data from ankle has better performance in emotion identification than wrist. Among different models, SVM has the highest accuracy, 90:31% when differ anger from neutral, 89:76% when differ happy from neutral, and 87:10% when differ anger from happy. The model for identifying anger/neutral/happy yields the best accuracy of 85%-78%-78%. The results show that we could identify peoples emotional states through the gait of walking with high accuracy.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1384/', ['Kinesiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Institute of Psychology, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'The 6th Research Institute of China Electronics Corporation(National Computer System Engineering Research Institute of China)', u'Institute of Computing Technology, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Identification of high-efficiency 3\u2019GG gRNA motifs in indexed FASTA files with ngg2', ['Elisha D Roberson'], u'2015-10-20', u"CRISPR/Cas9 is emerging as one of the most-used methods of genome modification in organisms ranging from bacteria to human cells. However, the efficiency of editing varies tremendously site-to-site. A recent report identified a novel motif, called the 3\u2019GG motif, which substantially increases the efficiency of editing at all sites tested in C. elegans. Furthermore, they highlighted that previously published gRNAs with high editing efficiency also had this motif. I designed a python command-line tool, ngg2, to identify 3\u2019GG gRNA sites from indexed FASTA files. As a proof-of-concept, I screened for these motifs in six model genomes: Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Danio rerio, Mus musculus, and Homo sapiens. I also scanned the genomes of pig (Sus scrofa) and African elephant (Loxodonta africana) to demonstrate the utility in non-model organisms. I identified more than 60 million single match 3\u2019GG motifs in these genomes. Greater than 61% of all protein coding genes in the reference genomes had at least one unique 3\u2019GG gRNA site overlapping an exon. In particular, more than 96% of mouse and 93% of human protein coding genes have at least one unique, overlapping 3\u2019GG gRNA. These identified sites can be used as a starting point in gRNA selection, and the ngg2 tool provides an important ability to identify 3'GG editing sites in any species with an available genome sequence.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/969/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Departments of Medicine & Genetics, Division of Rheumatology, Washington University in Saint Louis']]
[u'Towards a standard model for research in agent-based modeling and simulation', ['Nuno Fachada', 'Vitor V Lopes', 'Rui C Martins', 'Agostinho C Rosa'], u'2015-10-20', u'Agent-based modeling (ABM) is a bottom-up modeling approach, where each entity of the system being modeled is uniquely represented as an independent decision-making agent. ABMs are very sensitive to implementation details. Thus, it is very easy to inadvertently introduce changes which modify model dynamics. Such problems usually arise due to the lack of transparency in model descriptions, which constrains how models are assessed, implemented and replicated. In this paper, we present PPHPC, a model which aims to serve as a standard in agent based modeling research, namely, but not limited to, conceptual model specification, statistical analysis of simulation output, model comparison and parallelization studies. This paper focuses on the first two aspects (conceptual model specification and statistical analysis of simulation output), also providing a canonical implementation of PPHPC. The paper serves as a complete reference to the presented model, and can be used as a tutorial for simulation practitioners who wish to improve the way they communicate their ABMs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1440/', ['Agents and Multi-Agent Systems', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'Institute for Systems and Robotics, LARSyS, Instituto Superior T\xe9cnico, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Universidad de las Fuerzas Armadas-ESPE', u'Life and Health Sciences Research Institute, School of Health Sciences, University of Minho', u'Institute for Systems and Robotics - LARSyS, DBE- Instituto Superior T\xe9cnico, Universidade de Lisboa']]
[u'Functional consequences of prey acclimation to ocean acidification for the prey and its predator', ['Sam T Dupont', 'Matteo Mercurio', 'Antonio Giacoletti', 'Alessandro Rinaldi', 'Simone Mirto', "Leonardo D'Acquisto", 'Maria Antonietta Sabatino', 'Gianluca Sara'], u'2015-10-16', u'Ocean acidification is the suite of chemical changes to the carbonate system of seawater as a consequence of anthropogenic carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. Despite a growing body of evidences demonstrating the negative effects of ocean acidification on marine species, the consequences at the ecosystem level are still unclear. One factor limiting our ability to upscale from species to ecosystem is the poor mechanistic understanding of the functional consequences of the observed effects on organisms. This is particularly true in the context of species interactions. The aim of this work was to investigate the functional consequence of the exposure of a prey (the mussel Brachidontes pharaonis) to ocean acidification for both the prey and its predator (the crab Eriphia verrucosa). Mussels exposed to pH 7.5 for >4 weeks showed significant decreases in condition index and in mechanical properties (65% decrease in maximum breaking load) as compared with mussels acclimated to pH 8.0. This translated into negative consequences for the mussel in presence of the predator crab. The crab feeding efficiency increased through a significant 27% decrease in prey handling time when offered mussels acclimated to the lowest pH. The predator was also negatively impacted by the acclimation of the prey, probably as a consequence of a decreased food quality. When fed with prey acclimated under decreased pH for 3 months, crab assimilation efficiency significantly decreased by 30% and its growth rate was 5 times slower as compared with crab fed with mussels acclimated under high pH. Our results highlight the important to consider physiological endpoints in the context of species interactions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1438/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California', u'Department of Earth and Marine Sciences, University of Palermo', u'\u200bInstitute for the Coastal Marine Environment, National Reseach Council', u'Department of Chemical, Industrial, Computer, Mechanical engineering, University of Palermo']]
[u'Ketamine modulates subgenual cingulate connectivity with the memory-related neural circuit \u2013 a mechanism of relevance to resistant depression?', ['Jing J Wong', "Owen O'Daly", 'Mitul A Mehta', 'James M Stone'], u'2015-10-15', u'Background: Ketamine has been reported to have efficacy as an antidepressant in several studies of treatment-resistant depression. In this study, we investigate whether an acute administration of ketamine leads to reductions in the functional connectivity of subgenual anterior cingulate cortex (sgACC) with other brain regions. Methods: Thirteen right-handed healthy male subjects underwent a 15 minute resting state fMRI with an infusion of intravenous ketamine (target blood level=150ng/ml) starting at 5 minutes. We used a seed region centred on the sgACC and assessed functional connectivity before and during ketamine administration. Results: Before ketamine administration, positive coupling with the sgACC seed region was observed in a large cluster encompassing the anterior cingulate and negative coupling was observed with the anterior cerebellum. Following ketamine administration, sgACC coupling decreased with the brainstem, hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus, retrosplenial cortex, and thalamus. Discussion: Ketamine reduced functional connectivity of the sgACC with brain regions implicated in emotion, memory and mind wandering. It is possible the therapeutic effects of ketamine may be mediated via this mechanism, although further work is required to test this hypothesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1436/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Computational Science'], [u"Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, University of London"]]
[u'PEPR: Pipelines for evaluating prokaryotic references', ['Nathan D. Olson', 'Justin M. Zook', 'Daniel V. Samarov', 'Scott A. Jackson', 'Marc L. Salit'], u'2015-10-15', u'The rapid adoption of microbial whole genome sequencing in public health, clinical testing, and forensic laboratories requires the use of validated measurement processes. Reference materials that are well characterized, homogeneous, and stable can be used to evaluate measurement processes and help to establish confidence in the results. Given the variety of microbial genome sequencing applications and platforms, as well as the vast microbial genomic diversity, there is a need for application-specific genomic materials for method validation. We have developed a reproducible and transparent bioinformatics tool for characterizing prokaryotic genomic materials; \u201dPEPR\u201d, Pipelines for Evaluating Prokaryotic References. We demonstrate the tool and its output using sequencing data while developing a Staphylococcus aureus candidate genomic reference material.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1435/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Biosystems and Biomaterials Division, National Institute of Standards and Technology', u'Material Measurement Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and Technology', u'Statistical Engineering Division, National Institute of Standards and Technology', u'Department of Bioengineering, Stanford University']]
[u'Detect \u2018protein word\u2019 based on unsupervised word segmentation', ['Liang Wang', 'Kaiyong Zhao'], u'2015-10-14', u'Unsupervised word segmentation methods were applied to analyze the protein sequence. Protein sequences, such as \u2018MTMDKSELVQKA \u2026..\u2019, were used as input to these methods. Segmented \u2018protein word\u2019 sequences, such as \u2018MTM DKSE LVQKA\u2019, were then obtained. We compare the \u2018protein words\u2019 produced by unsupervised segmentation and the protein secondary structure segmentation. An interesting finding is that the unsupervised word segmentation is more efficient than secondary structure segmentation in expressing information. Our experiment also suggests there may be some \u2018protein ruins\u2019 in current noncoding regions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1433/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'NLP research lab, Sogou Tech Inc', u'Department of Computer Science, Hong Kong Baptist University']]
[u'Computerized methods for collecting confidence ratings: Task influences on patterns of responding', ['K. Andrew DeSoto'], u'2015-10-14', u'Retrospective confidence ratings and other judgments frequently are collected in computer-based psychology studies, but little research has investigated whether the method with which these ratings are collected influences the resulting data. To explore whether different confidence rating entry methods elicit different responses, 96 subjects were tested in a recognition memory paradigm. To rate confidence in recognition decisions from 0 - 100, half of the subjects used the numeric keypad on the keyboard to respond whereas the other half used an on-screen slider. Notably, whereas subjects using the numeric keypad frequently chose to enter confidence ratings divisible by 5 and 10, subjects using the slider showed no such preference but instead were more likely to accept the slider default value (i.e., 50) for each trial. The method with which confidence ratings are collected may have unintended consequences on confidence rating data and their interpretation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1432/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Psychological & Brain Sciences, Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'cual-id: globally unique, correctable, and human-friendly sample identifiers for comparative -omics studies', ['John H Chase', 'Evan T Bolyen', 'Jai Ram Rideout', 'J Gregory Caporaso'], u'2015-10-14', u'The number of samples in high-throughput comparative \u201comics\u201d studies is increasing rapidly due to the declining experimental costs. To keep sample data and metadata manageable, and ensure the integrity of scientific results as the scale of these projects continue to increase, it is essential that we transition to better designed sample identifiers. Ideally, sample identifiers will be: globally unique across projects, project teams and institutions; be short to facilitate manual transcription; be correctable with respect to common types of transcription errors; be opaque, meaning they do not contain information about the samples; and be compatible with existing standards. We present cual-id, a lightweight command line tool that creates, or mints, sample identifiers that meet these criteria without reliance on centralized infrastructure. cual-id allows users to assign Universally Unique Identifiers, or UUIDs, that are globally unique to their samples. UUIDs are too long to be conveniently written on sampling materials such as swabs or microcentrifuge tubes however, so cual-id additionally generates human-friendly 4-12 character identifiers (CualIDs) that map to their UUIDs and are unique within a project. CualIDs are used by humans when they are manually writing or entering identifiers, while the longer UUIDs are used by computers to unambiguously reference a sample. The adoption of identifiers that are globally unique, correctable, and easily hand-written or manually entered into a computer will be a major step forward for sample tracking in comparative -omics studies within and across projects and project teams.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1431/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Ecology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University']]
[u'Variation in the flowering time orthologs BrFLC and BrSOC1 in a natural population of Brassica rapa', ['Steven J Franks', 'Beatriz Perez-Sweeney', 'Maya Strahl', 'Anna Nowogrodzki', 'Jennifer J Weber', 'Rebecca Lalchan', 'Kevin P Jordan', 'Amy Litt'], u'2015-10-13', u'Understanding the genetic basis of natural phenotypic variation is of great importance, particularly since selection can act on this variation to cause evolution. We examined expression and allelic variation in candidate flowering time loci in Brassica rapa plants derived from a natural population and showing a broad range in the timing of first flowering. The loci of interest were orthologs of the Arabidopsis genes FLC and SOC1 (BrFLC and BrSOC1, respectively), which in Arabidopsis play a central role in the flowering time regulatory network, with FLC repressing and SOC1 promoting flowering. In B. rapa, there are four copies of FLC and three of SOC1. Plants were grown in controlled conditions in the lab. Comparisons were made between plants that flowered the earliest and latest, with the difference in average flowering time between these groups ~ 30 days. As expected, we found that total expression of BrSOC1 paralogs was significantly greater in early than in late flowering plants. Paralog-specific primers showed that expression was greater in early flowering plants in the BrSOC1 paralogs Br004928, Br00393 and Br009324, although the difference was not significant in Br009324. Thus expression of at least 2 of the 3 BrSOC1 orthologs is consistent with their predicted role in flowering time in this natural population. Sequences of the promoter regions of the BrSOC1 orthologs were variable, but there was no association between allelic variation at these loci and flowering time variation. For the BrFLC orthologs, expression varied over time, but did not differ between the early and late flowering plants. The coding regions, promoter regions and introns of these genes were generally invariant. Thus the BrFLC orthologs do not appear to influence flowering time in this population. Overall, the results suggest that even for a trait like flowering time that is controlled by a very well described genetic regulatory network, understanding the underlying genetic basis of natural variation in such a quantitative trait is challenging.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1430/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Fordham University', u'Pfizer Laboratory, The New York Botanical Garden', u'Center for Education Outreach, Baylor College of Medicine', u'Genetics and Genomics, Mt. Sinai Hospital', u'Comparative Media Studies, Massachusetts Institute of Technology', u'Plant Biology, Southern Illinois University at    Carbondale', u'Department of Botany and Plant Sciences, The University of California, Riverside']]
[u'Validation of the "Quality of Life in School" instrument in Canadian elementary school students', ['Satvinder Ghotra', 'Jessie-Lee D McIsaac', 'Sara FL Kirk', 'Stefan Kuhle'], u'2015-10-13', u"Background: School is an integral component of the life of a child and thus, quality of school life is an important part of the overall quality of life experienced by a child. Quality of school life may be an important outcome for the assessment of Health Promoting Schools, which is an approach used internationally to improve students\u2019 educational and health outcomes in school in an integrated and holistic way. There are a few instruments available to measure the quality of school life but they are often not available in English, or they are not appropriate for use alongside with other instruments in a survey of young children. The Quality of Life in School (QoLS) instrument is a short self-report measure to assess elementary school students\u2019 perception of their quality of school life in four domains. The instrument was developed in Israel and has been validated among Hebrew-speaking children. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the psychometric properties of the QoLS measure in Canadian elementary school children. Methods: 629 children attending grades 4 to 6 were recruited in a population-based cross-sectional study. The QoLS measure was administered to participating children by trained research assistants. In addition, their socio-demographic details and academic data were also obtained. The psychometric testing included exploratory factor analysis and reliability estimation using internal consistency (Cronbach\u2019s Alpha). Construct validity was investigated using the known groups comparisons for discriminative validity and via convergent validity. Results: A four-factor structure was generated explaining 39% of the total variance in the model. The results showed good internal consistency and acceptable floor and ceiling effects. Cronbach's Alpha ranged from 0.75 to 0.93. Known groups comparisons showed that the QoLS measure discriminated well between subgroups on the basis of gender, grade, and academic achievement, thus providing evidence of construct validity. The convergent validity was also appropriate with all the four domains demonstrating moderate to strong correlations to each other and to the total QoLS score. Conclusions: QoLS appears to be a valid and reliable measure for quality of school life assessment in young Canadian children.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1429/', ['Epidemiology', 'Pediatrics', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Dept of Pediatrics, Division of Neonatal-Perinatal Medicine, Dalhousie University', u'School of Health and Human Performance, Dalhousie University', u'Depts of Pediatrics and Obstetrics & Gynaecology, Dalhousie University']]
[u'Mining integrated semantic networks for drug repositioning opportunities', ['Joseph Mullen', 'Simon J Cockell', 'Hannah Tipney', 'Peter M Woollard', 'Anil Wipat'], u'2015-10-12', u'Current research and development approaches to drug discovery have become less fruitful and more costly. One alternative paradigm is that of drug repositioning. Many marketed examples of repositioned drugs have been identified through serendipitous or rational observations, highlighting the need for more systematic methodologies to tackle the problem. Systems level approaches have the potential to enable the development of novel methods to understand the action of therapeutic compounds, but requires an integrative approach to biological data. Integrated networks can facilitate systems level analyses by combining multiple sources of evidence to provide a rich description of drugs, their targets and their interactions. Classically, such networks can be mined manually where a skilled person is able to identify portions of the graph (semantic subgraphs) that are indicative of relationships between drugs and highlight possible repositioning opportunities. However, this approach is not scalable. Automated approaches are required to systematically mine integrated networks for these subgraphs and bring them to the attention of the user. We introduce a formal framework for the definition of integrated networks and their associated semantic subgraphs for drug interaction analysis and describe DReSMin, an algorithm for mining semantically-rich networks for occurrences of a given semantic subgraph. This algorithm allows instances of complex semantic subgraphs that contain data about putative drug repositioning opportunities to be identified in a computationally tractable fashion, scaling close to linearly with network data. We demonstrate the utility of our approach by mining an integrated drug interaction network built from 11 sources. This work identified and ranked 9,643,061 putative drug-target interactions, showing a strong correlation between highly scored associations and those supported by literature. We discuss the 20 top ranked associations in more detail, of which 14 are novel and 6 are supported by the literature. We also show that our approach better prioritizes known drug-target interactions, than other state-of-the art approaches for predicting such interactions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1427/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Pharmacology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Interdisciplinary Computing and Complex BioSystems Research Group, School of Computing Science, University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne', u'Bioinformatics Support Unit, University of Newcastle-upon-Tyne', u'Computational Biology Department, Quantitative Sciences, GlaxoSmithKline Research']]
[u'Tiling the genome into consistently named subsequences enables precision medicine and machine learning with millions of complex individual data-sets', ['Sarah Guthrie', 'Abram Connelly', 'Peter Amstutz', 'Adam F. Berrey', 'Nicolas Cesar', 'Jiahua Chen', 'Radhika Chippada', 'Tom Clegg', 'Bryan Cosca', 'Jiayong Li', 'Nancy Ouyang', 'Jonathan Sheffi', 'Brett Smith', 'Ward Vandewege', 'Alexander Wait Zaranek'], u'2015-10-12', u'The scientific and medical community is reaching an era of inexpensive whole genome sequencing, opening the possibility of precision medicine for millions of individuals. Here we present tiling: a flexible representation of whole genome sequences that supports simple and consistent names, annotation, queries, machine learning, and clinical screening. We partitioned the genome into 10,655,006 tiles: overlapping, variable-length sequences that begin and end with unique 24-base tags. We tiled and annotated 680 public whole genome sequences from the 1000 Genomes Project Consortium (1KG) and Harvard Personal Genome Project (PGP) using ClinVar database information. These genomes cover 14.13 billion tile sequences (4.087 trillion high quality bases and 0.4321 trillion low quality bases) and 251 phenotypes spanning ICD-9 code ranges 140-289, 320-629, and 680-759. We used these data to build a Global Alliance for Genomics and Health Beacon and graph database. We performed principal component analysis (PCA) on the 680 public whole genomes, and by projecting the tiled genomes onto their first two principal components, we replicated the 1KG principle component separation by population ethnicity codes. Interestingly, we found the PGP self reported ethnicities cluster consistently with 1KG ethnicity codes. We built a set of support-vector ABO blood-type classifiers using 75 PGP participants who had both a whole genome sequence and a self-reported blood type. Our classifier predicts A antigen presence to within 1% of the current state-of-the art for in silico A antigen prediction. Finally, we found six PGP participants with previously undiscovered pathogenic BRCA variants, and using our tiling, gave them simple, consistent names, which can be easily and independently re-derived. Given the near-future requirements of genomics research and precision medicine, we propose the adoption of tiling and invite all interested individuals and groups to view, rerun, copy, and modify these analyses at https://curover.se/su92l- j7d0g-swtofxa2rct8495', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1426/', ['Genomics', 'Medical Genetics'], [u'Curoverse, Inc.', u'Department of Science, University of Massachusetts at Boston']]
[u'Generation of high order geometry representations in octree meshes', ['Harald G Klimach', 'Jens Zudrop', 'Sabine P Roller'], u'2015-10-09', u'We propose a robust method to convert triangulated surface data into polynomial volume data. Such polynomial representations are required for high-order partial differential solvers, as low-order surface representations would diminish the accuracy of their solution. Our proposed method deploys a first order spatial bisection algorithm to find robustly an approximation of given geometries. The resulting voxelization is then used to generate Legendre polynomials of arbitrary degree. By embedding the locally defined polynomials in cubical elements of a coarser mesh, this method can reliably approximate even complex structures, like porous media. It thereby is possible to provide appropriate material definitions for high order discontinuous Galerkin schemes. We describe the method to construct the polynomial and how it fits into the overall mesh generation. Our discussion includes numerical properties of the method and we show some results from applying it to various geometries. We have implemented the described method in our mesh generator Seeder, which is publically available under a permissive open-source license.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1316/', ['Computer Aided Design', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation'], [u'Department Maschinenbau, University of Siegen', u'Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Siegen']]
[u'Identification and typing of Salmonella for public health surveillance using whole genome sequencing', ['Philip M Ashton', 'Satheesh Nair', 'Tansy Peters', 'Janet Bale', 'David G Powell', 'Anais Painset', 'Rediat Tewolde', 'Claire Jenkins', 'Timothy J Dallman', 'Elizabeth M DePinna', 'Kathie A Grant'], u'2015-10-09', u'In April 2015, Public Health England implemented whole genome sequencing (WGS) as a routine typing tool for public health surveillance of Salmonella, adopting a multilocus sequence typing (MLST) approach as a replacement for traditional serotyping. The WGS derived sequence type (ST) was compared to the phenotypic serotype for 6887 isolates of S. enterica subspecies I, and of these, 6616 (96%) were concordant. Of the 4% (n=271) of isolates of subspecies I exhibiting a mismatch, 119 were due to a process error in the laboratory, 26 were likely caused by the serotype designation in the MLST database being incorrect and 126 occurred when two different serovars belonged to the same ST. The population structure of S. enterica subspecies II-IV differs markedly from that of subspecies I and, based on current data, defining the serovar from the clonal complex may be less appropriate for the classification of this group. Novel sequence types that were not present in the MLST database were identified in 8.6% of the total number of samples tested (including S. enterica subspecies I-IV and S. bongori) and these 654 isolates belonged to 326 novel STs. For S. enterica subspecies I, WGS MLST derived serotyping is a high throughput, accurate, robust, reliable typing method, well suited to routine public health surveillance. The combined output of ST and serovar supports the maintenance of traditional serovar nomenclature while providing additional insight on the true phylogenetic relationship between isolates.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1425/', ['Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Public Health'], [u'Gastrointestinal Bacterial Reference Unit, Public Health England', u'Applied Laboratory and Bio- Informatics Unit, Public Health England']]
[u'Are attractive male crickets better able to pay the costs of an immune challenge?', ['Clint D Kelly', 'Melissa Telemeco', 'Amy L Toth', 'Lyric C Bartholomay'], u'2015-10-09', u'Reproduction and immunity are fitness-related traits that trade-off with each other. Parasite-mediated theories of sexual selection suggest, however, that higher-quality males should suffer smaller costs to reproduction-related traits and behaviours (e.g. sexual display) from an immune challenge because these males possess more resources with which to deal with the challenge. We used Gryllus texensis field crickets to test the prediction that attractive males should better maintain the performance of a fitness-related traits (e.g. calling effort) in the face of an immune challenge compared with unattractive males. We found no support for our original predictions. However, that immune activation causes attractive males to significantly increase their calling effort compared with unattractive males suggests that these males might terminally invest in order to compensate for decreased future reproduction.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1424/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'D\xe9partement des sciences biologiques, Univerist\xe9 du Queb\xe9c \xe0 Montr\xe9al', u'Science and Education Division, Pacific Science Center', u'Department of Ecology, Evolution and Organismal Biology, Iowa State University', u'Department of Pathobiological Sciences, University of Wisconsin']]
[u'Essential design modeling for scientific software development', ['Zeeshan Ahmed'], u'2015-10-08', u'Software design and its engineering is essential for bioinformatics software impact. We propose a new approach \u2018Butterfly\u2019, for the betterment of modeling of scientific software solutions by targeting key developmental points: intuitive, graphical user interface design, stable methodical implementation and comprehensive output presentation. The focus of research was to address following three key points: 1) differences and different challenges required to change from traditional to scientific software engineering, 2) scientific software solution development needs feedback and control loops following basic engineering principles for implementation and 3) software design with new approach which helps in developing and implementing a comprehensive scientific software solution. We validated the approach by comparing old and new bioinformatics software solutions. Moreover, we have successfully applied our approach in the design and engineering of different well applied and published Bioinformatics and Neuroinformatics tools including DroLIGHT, LS-MIDA, Isotopo, Ant-App-DB, GenomeVX and Lipid-Pro.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1423/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Computational Biology, The Jackson Laboratory For Genomic Medicine']]
[u'What drives computational chemistry forward: theory or computational power?', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2015-10-08', u'History is often thought to be dull and boring \u2013 where large numbers of facts are memorized for passing exams. But the past informs the present and future; particularly in delineating the context surrounding specific events that, in turn, help provide a deeper understanding of their underlying causes and implications. Scientific progress (whether incremental or breakthroughs) is built upon prior work. Chronological examination of the field\u2019s evolution reveals the existence of major \u201cepochs\u201d (e.g., transition from semi-empirical methods to first-principles calculations), and the centrality of key ideas (e.g., Schrodinger equation and Born-Oppenheimer approximation) in potentiating progress in the field. The longstanding question of whether computing power (both capacity and speed) or theoretical insights play a more important role in advancing computational chemistry was examined by taking into account the field\u2019s development holistically. Particularly, availability of large amount of computing power at declining cost, and advent of graphics processing unit (GPU) powered parallel computing are enabling tools for solving hitherto intractable problems. Nevertheless, the article argues, using Born-Oppenheimer approximation as an example, that theoretical insights\u2019 role in unlocking problems through simple (but insightful) assumptions is often overlooked. Collectively, the essay should be useful as a primer for appreciating major development periods in computational chemistry, from which, counterfactual questions illuminate the relative importance of intuition and advances in computing in moving the field forward.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/552/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Recognition of emotions using Kinects', ['Shun Li', 'Liqing Cui', 'Changye Zhu', 'Nan Zhao', 'Baobin Li', 'Tingshao Zhu'], u'2015-10-07', u"Emotion recognition can improve the quality of patient care, product development and human-machine interaction.Psychological studies indicate that emotional state can be expressed in the way people walk,and the human gait can be used to reveal a person's emotional state.This paper proposes a novel method to do emotion recognition by using Microsoft Kinect to record gait patterns and train machine learning algorithms for emotion recognition. 59 subjects are recruited, and their gait patterns are recorded by two Kinect cameras.Joint selection, coordinate system transformation, sliding window gauss filtering,differential operation, and data segmentation are used for data preprocessing.We run Fourier transformation to extract features from the gait patterns and utilize Principal Component Analysis(PCA) for feature selection. By using NaiveBayes, RandomForests, LibSVM and SMO classifiers, the accuracy of recognition between natural and angry emotions can reach 80%,and the accuracy of recognition between natural and happy emotions can reach above 70%.The result indicates that Kinect can be used in the recognition of emotions with fairly well performance.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1419/', ['Kinesiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Institute of Psychology,Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'The 6th Research Institute of China Electronics Corporation', u'School of Computer and Control, University of Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Institute of Computing Technology,Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Outline for an information theoretic search engine', ['Koos Vanderwilt'], u'2015-10-07', u"It is proposed an information theoretic search engine is like RADAR. The query words are the emitted signals and the document database is the object to be detected. Various echoes come off the database, and analogous with echo cancelation, the signal with the lowest entropy is selected. Commensurate with Shannon's theory, low entropy documents are signal, higher entropy documents are noise. Thus, my proposal separates signal from noise. As many relevant documents can be tined to be signal as desired.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1400/', ['Computational Linguistics'], [u'Independent researcher']]
[u'Predictability of cockle (Austrovenus stutchburyi) population trends in New Zealand\u2019s northern North Island', ['Philipp Neubauer', 'Edward R Abraham', 'Katrin Berkenbusch'], u'2015-10-07', u"Population monitoring programmes are used to gain knowledge about system functioning or about the response of a system's state to management measures. The current study provided an assessment of comprehensive monitoring data of intertidal bivalve populations in northern New Zealand. In this region, a number of bivalve species are targeted in recreational and customary fisheries, including cockles (Austrovenus stutchburyi) that are one of the main target species. To monitor the sustainability of cockle populations, regular population surveys have been conducted since the 1990s at different northern New Zealand sites, although the sampling frequency has varied greatly across sites. Furthermore, a general lack of fishing data for the target populations prevents a systematic assessment of management measures and population trends within a fishery assessment framework. In view of these shortcomings, the current study provided a systematic phenomenological assessment of the survey data to make general recommendations about the effectiveness of management and for guiding prioritisation and design for future surveys. The assessment was based on a Bayesian state-space model that simultaneously analysed monitoring data from 21 incomplete survey time-series between 1999-2000 and 2014-15. The model showed that the predictability of estimated large-size cockle densities was highly site-specific. Across all sites, the predictability of density trends could be used to guide the prioritisation of sites to be included in the survey, or to adjust the sampling frequency at individual sites. Based on the current analysis, existing management measures in the form of fishery closures at some of the sites appear to be effective in allowing recovery of depleted cockle populations. Only those sites that had management measures in place showed an increase in large cockle densities. In the absence of fishing data, adaptive management and targeted intervention could be used to further assess the efficacy of management measures.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1422/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Dragonfly Data Science']]
[u'Not so sluggish: the success of the Felimare picta complex (Gastropoda, Nudibranchia) crossing Atlantic biogeographic barriers', ['Frederico Almada', 'Andre Levy', 'Joana I Robalo'], u'2015-10-07', u'The molecular phylogeny of the Atlanto-Mediterranean species of the genus Felimare, particularly those attributed to the species F. picta, was inferred using two mitochondrial markers (16S and COI). A recent revision of the Chromodorididae clarified the taxonomic relationships at the family level reclassifying all eastern Pacific, Atlantic and Mediterranean species of the genus Hypselodoris and two species of the genus Mexichromis, within the genus Felimare. However, conflicting taxonomic classifications have been proposed for a group with overlapping morphological characteristics and geographical distributions designated here as the Felimare picta complex. Three major groups were identified: one Mediterranean and amphi-Atlantic group; a western Atlantic group and a tropical eastern Atlantic group. F. picta forms a paraphyletic group since some subspecies are more closely related with taxa traditionaly classified as independent species (e.g. F. zebra) than with other subspecies with allopatric distributions (e.g. F. picta picta and F. picta tema). Usually, nudibranchs have adhesive demersal eggs, short planktonic larval phases and low mobility as adults unless rafting on floating materials occurs. However, the phylogeny of the F. picta complex suggests they had an unusual success crossing main Atlantic biogeographic barriers including the mid-Atlantic barrier. This ability to cross different biogeographic barriers may be related with F. picta distinct life history and ecological traits. Compared to other Chromodorididae F. picta presents large eggs and planktotrophic larvae which could be related with a longer planktonic phase.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1420/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology'], [u'MARE - Marine and Environmental Sciences Centre, ISPA Instituto Universit\xe1rio de Ci\xeancias Psicol\xf3gicas, Sociais e da Vida']]
[u'Role of heparan sulfate in mediating CXCL8-induced endothelial cell migration', ['Zhiping Yan', 'Jingxia Liu', 'Linshen Xie', 'Xiaoheng Liu', 'Ye Zeng'], u'2015-10-07', u'Several positively charged epitopes on the surface of CXCL8 involved in the binding of the major components of endothelial glycocalyx, sulfated glycosaminoglycans (GAGs).In the present study, we aimed to test the hypothesis that the surface GAGs \u2014 heparan sulfate (HS) is a crucial prerequisite for enhancement of endothelial cell migration by CXCL8, and to explore its underlying mechanism by detecting the changes in expression of Rho-GTPases and in the organization of actin cytoskeleton after enzymatic removal of HS on human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) by using heparinase III.Our results revealed that the reduction of wound area by CXCL8 was greatly attenuated by removal of HS. The upregulations of Rho-GTPases, including Cdc42, Rac1, and RhoA by CXCL8 were suppressed by removal of HS . The polymerization and polarization of actin cytoskeleton, and the increasing of stress fibers by CXCL8 were also abolished by heparinase III. Taken together, our results demonstrated an essential role of HS in mediating CXCL8-induced endothelial cell migration, and highlighted the biological relevance of the CXCL8 and GAGs interactions in endothelial cell migration.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1421/', ['Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Cardiology'], [u'Institute of Biomedical Engineering, School of Preclinical and Forensic Medicine, Sichuan University', u'West China school of Public Health, No.4 West China Hospital, Sichuan University']]
[u'Almost all known sauropod necks are incomplete and distorted', ['Michael P Taylor'], u'2015-10-06', u'Sauropods are familiar dinosaurs, immediately recognisable by their great size and long necks. However, their necks are much less well known than is usually assumed. Very few complete necks have been described in the literature, and even important specimens such as the Carnegie Diplodocus and Apatosaurus, and the giant Berlin brachiosaur, in fact have imperfectly known necks. In older specimens, missing bone is often difficult to spot due to over-enthusiastic restoration. Worse still, even those vertebrae that are complete are often badly distorted \u2013 for example, in consecutive cervicals of the Carnegie Diplodocus CM 84, the aspect ratio of the posterior articular facet of the centrum varies so dramatically that C14 appears 35% broader proportionally than C13. Widespread incompleteness and distortion are both inevitable due to sauropod anatomy: large size made it almost impossible for whole individuals to be preserved because sediment cannot be deposited quickly enough to cover a giant carcass; and distortion of presacral vertebrae is common due their lightweight pneumatic construction. This ubiquitous incompleteness and unpredictable distortion compromise attempts to determine habitual neck posture and range of motion by modelling articulations between vertebrae.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1418/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol']]
[u'On fearfulness and patterns of bird urbanisation in an Australian metropolis', ['Lawrence E Conole'], u'2015-10-05', u'I have utilised an assemblage of 91 bird species, their urban tolerance status objectively classified, with data on bird flight initiation distance (FID), to test questions of the importance of birds\u2019 fearfulness of humans in determining urban tolerance or intolerance in the metropolis of Melbourne, Australia. While several studies have shown that mean FID for bird species (mFID) differs between rural and urban populations of bird species, stronger predictive ability is shown by variability in FID (cvFID) in modelling urban invasiveness. I test two hypotheses. Firstly, that mFID will be shorter in urban exploiter bird species than urban adapters and avoiders. Secondly that cvFID is positively correlated with bird incidence at the landscape scale in Melbourne. Relatively weak explanatory power of cvFID found in this study suggest that environmental and behavioural factors acting in concert better explain the urban tolerance of bird species and assemblages, rather than fearfulness alone.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1417/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'School of Land & Food, Geography and Environmental Studies, University of Tasmania']]
[u'The rise of Chrome', ['Jonathan Tamary', 'Dror G Feitelson'], u'2015-10-05', u"Since Chrome's initial release in 2008 it has grown in market share, and now controls roughly half of the desktop browsers market. In contrast with Internet Explorer, the previous dominant browser, this was not achieved by marketing practices such as bundling the browser with a pre-loaded operating system. This raises the question of how Chrome achieved this remarkable feat, while other browsers such as Firefox and Opera were left behind. We show that both the performance of Chrome and its conformance with relevant standards are typically better than those of the two main contending browsers, Internet Explorer and Firefox. In addition, based on a survey of the importance of 25 major features, Chrome product managers seem to have made somewhat better decisions in selecting where to put effort. Thus the rise of Chrome is consistent with technical superiority over the competition.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/966/', ['World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'The Rachel and Selim Benin School of Computer Science and Engineering, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem']]
[u'Host plant use drives genetic differentiation in syntopic populations of Maculinea alcon', ['Andras Tartally', 'Andreas Kelager', 'Matthias A Furst', 'David R Nash'], u'2015-10-02', u'The rare socially parasitic butterfly Maculinea alcon occurs in two forms, which are characteristic of hygric or xeric habitats, and which exploit different host plants and host ants. The status of these two forms has been the subject of considerable controversy. Populations of the two forms are usually spatially distinct, but at R\u0103scruci in Romania both forms occurs syntopically. We examined the genetic differentiation between the two forms using eight microsatellite markers, using samples from a nearby hygric site as out group. Our results showed that while the two forms are strongly differentiated at R\u0103scruci, it is the xeric form there that is most similar to the hygric form at \u015eardu, and Bayesian clustering algorithms suggest that these two populations have exchanged genes relatively recently. We found strong evidence for population substructuring, caused by high within-nest relatedness, not association with host ants use, indicating very limited dispersal of most ovipositing females. Our results are consistent with the results of larger scale phylogeographic studies that suggest that the two forms represent local ecotypes specialising on different host plants, each with a distinct flowering phenology, and is an example of a genetic barrier operating on a temporal scale rather than spatial', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1416/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics'], [u'Department of Evolutionary Zoology and Human Biology, University of Debrecen', u'Centre for Social Evolution, Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen', u'Centre for Macoecology, Evolution and Climate, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of Copenhagen', u'Evolutionary and Behavioral Biology Group, Institute of Science and Technology, Austria']]
[u'Replacement of native by non-native animal communities assisted by human introduction and management on Isla Victoria, Nahuel Huapi National Park', ['Valeria L Martin-Albarracin', 'Martin A Nunez', 'Guillermo C Amico'], u'2015-10-02', u'One of the possible consequences of biological invasions is the decrease of native species abundances or their replacement by non-native species. In Andean Patagonia, southern Argentina and Chile, many non-native animals have been introduced and are currently spreading. On Isla Victoria, Nahuel Huapi National Park, many non-native vertebrates were introduced ca. 1937. Records indicate that several native vertebrates were present before these species were introduced. We hypothesize that seven decades after the introduction of non-native species and without appropriate management to maintain native diversity, non-native vertebrates have displaced native species -given the known invasiveness and impacts of some of the introduced species-. We conducted direct censuses in linear transects 500m long (n=10) in parallel with camera-trapping (1253 camera-days) surveys in two regions of the island with different levels of disturbance: high (n=4) and low (n= 6) to study the community of terrestrial mammals and birds and the relative abundances of native and non-native species. Results show that currently non-native species are dominant across all environments; 60.4% of census records and 99.7% of camera trapping records are of non-native animals. We detected no native large mammals; the assemblage of large vertebrates consisted of five non-native mammals and one non-native bird. Native species detected were one small mammal and one small bird. Species with a highest trapping rate were red and fallow deer, wild boar, silver pheasant (the four species non-native) and chucao (a native bird). These results suggest that native species are being displaced by non-natives and are currently in very low numbers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1415/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Laboratorio Ecotono, INIBIOMA, CONICET-Universidad Nacional del Comahue', u'Grupo de Ecologia de Invasiones, INIBIOMA, CONICET-Universidad Nacional del Comahue']]
[u'Comparison of three clustering approaches for detecting novel environmental microbial diversity', ['Dominik Forster', 'Micah Dunthorn', 'Thorsten Stoeck', 'Frederic Mahe'], u'2015-10-02', u'Discovery of novel diversity in high-throughput sequencing (HTS) studies is a central task in environmental microbial ecology. To evaluate the effects that amplicon clustering methods have on novel diversity discovery, we clustered an environmental marine protist HTS dataset of protist reads together with accessions from the taxonomically curated PR2 reference database using three de novo approaches: sequence similarity networks, USEARCH, and Swarm. The novel diversity uncovered by each clustering approach differed drastically in the number of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and the number of environmental amplicons in these novel diversity OTUs. Global pairwise alignment comparisons revealed that numerous amplicons classified as novel by USEARCH and Swarm were actually highly similar to reference accessions. Using graph theory we found additional novel diversity within OTUs that would have gone unnoticed without further using their underlying network topologies. Our results suggest that novel diversity inferred from clustering approaches requires further validation, whereas graph theory provides a powerful tool for microbial ecology and the analyses of environmental HTS datasets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1414/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Ecology, Technische Universit\xe4t Kaiserslautern']]
[u'A new dinosaur ichnosite from the early Cretaceous Sousa Formation, Northeastern Brazil', ['Hebert Bruno Hebert Campos', 'Niels Bonde', 'Maria Eduarda Leal', 'Mario Andre Dantas'], u'2015-10-01', u'Background. The Sousa Formation contains the richest dinosaur ichnofauna from the Early Cretaceous Rio do Peixe Basin, Northeastern Brazil. Occurs eventually ornithopod tracks, which are found also in the Antenor Navarro and Piranhas Formations. Together with one trackway from the Botucatu Formation, some isolated tracks from the Cenomanian S\xe3o Lu\xeds Basin, and some trackways from the Early Cretaceous Corda Formation, at the moment, these occurrences indicates the only definitive presence of ornithopods in the Mesozoic of Brazil. Material & Methods. In 2015, a fieldwork was held to investigate potential dinosaur tracks in new ichnosites from the Sousa Formation. All the tracks were photographed individually using a digital camera Nikon Coolpix P520. The paleoichnological terminology and morphometric parametrers follows Thulborn (1990), Marty (2008) and Castanera et al. (2013). A plastic sheet was used for drawing the tracks. Directions and measurements of each dinosaur track, as well as the entire outcrop, were taken in situ. Results. The Pereiros ichnosite represents a new occurrence of dinosaur tracks from the Sousa Formation. The dinosaur ichnofauna comprises a medium-sized, bipedal ornithopod trackway, a single ornithopod track and one pair of theropod tracks. Discussion. The ornithopod trackway is characterized by plantigrade, tridactyl, mesaxonic, subsymmetrical and wider than long pes tracks, with large and rounded heels, and short and wide digit impressions. It is referred to the ichnofamily Iguanodontipodidae, previously reported for the Sousa beds. Two medium-sized theropod tracks assigned to Irenesauripus also occurs, representing an expansion of the paleobiogeographical record for this unusual ichnotaxa. The new record of Irenesauripus from the Sousa Formation shows an unusual pattern with morphological similarities to theropods tracks from the Lower Cretaceous Feitianshan Formation of Sichuan, China (Xing et al., 2013). According to Xing et al. (2011), the Chinese tracks preserve partial metatarsal pads that are not distinct from their respective metatarsophalangeal regions. Xing et al. (2011) noted the unusual elongate digit II claw impression, indicating that digit II of the trackmaker possessed a long claw, longer than on any of the other digits. Conclusions. The outcrop studied represents the nineteenth dinosaur tracksite in the Sousa Formation and gives further evidence of the rather rare ornithopod dinosaurs in the Cretaceous of Brazil.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1413/', ['Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Independent researcher', u'Zoological Museum (SNM)', u'Departmento de Geologia, Universidade Federal do Cear\xe1', u'Instituto Multidisciplinar em Sa\xfade, Universidade Federal da Bahia']]
[u'Managing contamination delay to improve Timing Speculation architectures', ['Naga Durga Prasad Avirneni', 'Prem Kumar Ramesh', 'Arun K Somani'], u'2015-10-01', u'Timing Speculation (TS) is a widely known method for realizing better-than-worst-case systems. Aggressive clocking, realizable by TS, enable systems to operate beyond specified safe frequency limits to effectively exploit the data dependent circuit delay. However, the range of aggressive clocking for performance enhancement under TS is restricted by short paths. In this paper, we show that increasing the lengths of short paths of the circuit increases the effectiveness of TS, leading to performance improvement. Also, we propose an algorithm to efficiently add delay buffers to selected short paths while keeping down the area penalty. We present our algorithm results for ISCAS-85 suite and show that it is possible to increase the circuit contamination delay by up to 30% without affecting the propagation delay. We also explore the possibility of increasing short path delays further by relaxing the constraint on propagation delay and analyze the performance impact.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1412/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Computer Architecture', 'Embedded Computing', 'Emerging Technologies'], [u'Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Iowa State University']]
[u'Astrocyte activation in the anterior cingulate cortex and altered glutamatergic gene expression during paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain in mice', ['Willias Masocha'], u'2015-10-01', u'Spinal astrocyte activation contributes to the pathogenesis of paclitaxel-induced neuropathic pain (PINP) in animal models. We examined glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP; an astrocyte marker) immunoreactivity and gene expression of GFAP, glutamate transporters and receptor subunits by real time PCR in the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) at 7 days post first administration of paclitaxel, a time point when mice had developed thermal hyperalgesia. The ACC, an area in the brain involved in pain perception and modulation, was chosen because changes in this area might contribute to the pathophysiology of PINP. GFAP transcripts levels were elevated by more than fivefold and GFAP immunoreactivity increased in the ACC of paclitaxel-treated mice. The 6 glutamate transporters (GLAST, GLT-1 EAAC1, EAAT4, VGLUT-1 and VGLUT-2) quantified were not significantly altered by paclitaxel treatment. Of the 12 ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits transcripts analysed 6 (GLuA1, GLuA3, GLuK2, GLuK3, GLuK5 and GLuN1) were significantly up-regulated, whereas GLuA2, GLuK1, GLuK4, GLuN2A and GLuN2B were not significantly altered and GLuA4 was lowly expressed. Amongst the 8 metabotropic receptor subunits analysed only mGLuR8 was significantly elevated. In conclusion, during PINP there is astrocyte activation, no change in glutamate transporter expression and differential up-regulation of glutamate receptor subunits in the ACC. Thus, targeting astrocyte activation and the glutamatergic system might be another therapeutic avenue for management of PINP.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1246/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department Pharmacology and Therapeutics, Faculty of Pharmacy, Kuwait University']]
[u'Impact of restricted forward greedy feature selection technique on bug prediction', ['Muthukumaran Kasinathan', 'Lalita Bhanu Murthy Neti'], u'2015-10-01', u'Several change metrics and source code metrics have been introduced and proved to be effective in bug prediction. Researchers performed comparative studies of bug prediction models built using the individual metrics as well as combination of these metrics. In this paper, we investigate the impact of feature selection in bug prediction models by analyzing the misclassification rates of these models with and without feature selection in place. We conduct our experiments on five open source projects by considering numerous change metrics and source code metrics. And this study aims to figure out the reliable subset of metrics that are common amongst all projects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1411/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Information Systems, BITS Pilani Hyderabad Campus']]
[u'Eocene tarpons from the North Sea region, Denmark and UK', ['Maria E. C. Leal', 'Bo P. Schultz', 'Henrik Madsen', 'Chiara Villa', 'Niels Lynnerup', 'Niels Jrgen  Rosenkrants', 'Ulrich Veje', 'Niels Bonde'], u'2015-09-30', u'There are very few tarpons (family Megalopidae) and other elopiforms (fam. Elopidae) recorded in the Tertiary. The records are mainly from the Eocene, and more abundant in the \u2018North Sea Region\u2019 in Early Eocene, as for instance the large Danish forms. They are also found in late Early Eocene in London Clay, in Late Eocene in Caucasia, and in Miocene of SE-Asia, although none were described from the famous Bolca fauna (early Mid Eocene). However, there is a large, still undescribed \u2018tarpon-like\u2019 fish in the Bolca Museum (obs. MECL & NB 2014). There are even fewer described from the long Cretaceous period, 4-5? genera, including the large Paraelops from Romualdo Formation, Araripe Basin, NE-Brazil, and a large undescribed megalopid from Tlayua, Pueblo, Mexico, both \u2018Mid Cretaceous\u2019. The oldest elopiforms are from Late Jurassic Solnhofen Limestone. The large Danish \u2018tarpons\u2019 come from \u2018cementstones\u2019 in Fur Formation (earliest Eocene, ca. 55 m.y.), and here we report an almost complete specimen which is ca. 110 cm long; however, big isolated scales found in this formation indicate fishes at least twice as big (comparable in size with the living Tarpon atlanticus - over 2\xbd m). This specimen has a heavy skull lacking the lower jaw, and is preserved in 3-D. It was split in the midline and acid prepared, being then CT-scanned in Aarhus and reconstructed in the Laboratory of Biological Anthropology, Copenhagen University to attempt precise, detailed comparisons with modern skulls and with the 3-D skulls preserved in concretions from the London Clay.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1410/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Geologia, Universidade Federal do Cear\xe1', u'Fur Museum, Muserum Salling', u'Molermuseet', u'Laboratory of Biological Anthropology, Department of Forensic Medicine, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Neuroradiology, Aarhus University Hospital', u'Zoological Museum, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'The loss of foundation species revisited', ['Allyson Degrassi', 'Steven T Brantley', 'Carrie R. Levine', 'Robert Miller', 'Jacqueline Mohan', 'Sydne Record', 'Aaron M Ellison'], u'2015-09-30', u'Ecologists and environmental scientists often prioritize research efforts with conservation importance. Dominant, widespread, or locally abundant species at low risk of extinction receive relatively little attention unless they are invasive. Native foundation species create habitats and environmental conditions that support many associated species and modulate local-scale ecosystem processes, but the generally high local or regional abundance of foundation species may lead to less research about them. We used citation analysis (2005-2014) to examine research following from a suggestion to identify and study foundation species while they were still common and not threatened. We explored the use and expanding definition of the foundation species concept, as well as the trajectory and ecological focus of research on foundation species throughout the world in 378 papers published in this nine-year span. Contemporary authors who cite key papers defining a foundation species pay little attention to its actual definition and species studied in this context rarely were identified as foundation species. Although functions and roles of foundation species, such as creating unique microclimates or supporting dependent species, are being studied, less research is focused on identifying them before they are threatened or lost from the ecosystem that they otherwise define. Invasive species were identified as the most common threat to foundation species. Our citation analysis and synthesis provides a new conceptual framework linking identification of and research about foundation species with their functional roles and our ability to manage emerging threats to them.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1409/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Vermont', u'Joseph W. Jones Ecological Research Center', u'Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, University of California, Berkeley', u'Marine Science Institute, University of California, Santa Barbara', u'Odum School of Ecology, University of Georgia', u'Department of Biology, Bryn Mawr College', u'Harvard Forest, Harvard University']]
[u'A mathematical model describes Drosophila sleep behavior in w1118 controls and in a hyposomnolent insomniac line', ['Joshua M Diamond'], u'2015-09-30', u'The conserved nature of sleep in Drosophila has allowed the fruit fly to emerge in the last decade as a powerful model organism in which to study sleep. Recent sleep studies in Drosophila have focused on the discovery and characterization of hyposomnolent mutants. One common feature of these animals is a change in sleep architecture: sleep bout count tends to be greater, and sleep bout length lower, in hyposomnolent mutants. I propose a mathematical model, produced by least-squares nonlinear regression to fit the form Y = aX^b, which can explain sleep behavior in the healthy animal as well as previously-reported changes in total sleep and sleep architecture in hyposomnolent mutants. This model, fit to sleep data, yields coefficient of determination R squared, which describes goodness of fit. R squared is lower in hyposomnolent mutant insomniac as compared to control, indicating a poorer fit of the model to the data in insomniac. R squared also tends to be lower in daytime sleep as compared to nighttime sleep. My findings raise the possibility that low R squared is a feature of all hyposomnolent mutants, not just insomniac. If this were the case, R squared could emerge as a novel means by which sleep researchers might assess sleep dysfunction.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1408/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Entomology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Medicine, University of Virginia']]
[u'A unifying theory for physiological transmembrane transport derived from thermodynamic principles', ['Marco Arieli Herrera-Valdez'], u'2015-09-30', u'Cellular homeostasis involves transmembrane molecular transport mediated by membrane-spanning proteins. Such proteins either carry the molecules across the membrane, or facilitate their diffusion. A generic formulation that describes transmembrane fluxes, derived from basic thermodynamic principles, and describing fluxes mediated by carrier proteins or by open channels using the same functional form is presented here. An alternative derivation from the Nernst-Planck equation that yields the same generic formulation can be obtained for the case of channel- mediated electrodiffusion. In general terms, the generic formulation is a product of an amplitude and a driving force. The amplitude models properties of the protein mediating the transport including basal rates of transport. The driving force term that depends non-linearly on the transmembrane concentrations of the molecules being transported, and possibly the transmembrane potential. The model applied for channel mediated currents is capable of displaying rectification. Further, an extension for channel gating derived en passage allows fitting of currents recorded in voltage-clamp without using powers for the gating variables. The generic formulation explicitly shows that the basal rate at which ions cross the membrane is the main macroscopic difference between currents mediated by carrier proteins and channels. Many functional forms that were not always derived from the same assumptions can be found in modelling studies of transmembrane transport, especially those studies focusing on the membrane potential of excitable cells. The derivations presented here unify the theory of biological transmembrane transport. Of particular interest, electrogenic transmembrane fluxes described with the general formulation can be converted to currents for the construction of models of membrane excitability; all based on the same assumptions and having the same functional form. The applicability of the generic derivations presented here is illustrated with models of excitability for neurones and pacemaker cardiocytes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1312/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Departamento de Matem\xe1ticas, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico']]
[u'Zeta potential of bacterial cells: Effect of wash buffers', ['Wenfa Ng', 'Yen-Peng Ting'], u'2015-09-30', u'Zeta potential, defined as the electric charge at the shear plane, is widely used as a proxy for bacterial cell surface charge. Nonspecific adsorption of ions or polyelectrolytes onto the cell surface, however, alters the value and polarity of the measured zeta potential, leading to erroneous results. Multiple wash and centrifugation steps are commonly used in preparing cells for zeta potential analysis, where various wash buffers (such as 9 g/L NaCl, 0.001M KCl, and 0.1M NaNO3) are routinely used for removing (via charge screening) ions and charged molecules that bind nonspecifically to the cell surface. Preliminary data revealed that, for Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 grown in LB Lennox (with 2 g/L glucose, LBG hereafter), the zeta potential-pH profile was not significantly different over the pH range from 2 to 12 for deionized water, 9 g/L NaCl, and phosphate buffer saline (PBS) wash buffers. As LBG is a low salt medium without a phosphate buffer, it was likely that the extent of nonspecific adsorption of ions on the cell surface was not severe, and the different wash buffers would, correspondingly, not exert much effect on measured zeta potential. For E. coli grown in a semi-defined medium (with a high capacity phosphate buffer system), the zeta potential-pH profile was significantly different over the pH range from 1 to 12 for deionized water, 9 g/L NaCl, 0.1M NaNO3, 0.1M sodium acetate, and 0.1M sodium citrate wash buffers with the extent of difference positively correlated with wash buffer\u2019s ionic strength. Furthermore, the point of zero charge (pHzpc) for E. coli grown in the semi-defined medium varies between 1.5 and 3, in an ionic strength-dependent manner, for the various wash buffers tested. Collectively, this preliminary study highlights that wash buffer ionic strength plays important roles in affecting removal efficiency of nonspecifically absorbed ions on bacterial surfaces, where a threshold exists (0.15M) for charge screening to be effective, while 0.6M ionic strength might result in intrinsic cations removal, leading to possible cell surface damage and erroneous measurements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/110/', ['Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Development of a semi-defined medium for high cell density cultivation of Escherichia coli in shake flask culture system', ['Wenfa Ng', 'Yen-Peng Ting'], u'2015-09-30', u'Microbes in environmental studies should be cultured in growth media with characteristics as close to their original habitat as possible, and which also allows a high cell density to be attained for providing enough cells in subsequent experiments. This in-progress report describes the formulation of a medium with an environmentally-relevant composition, and which also affords aerobic high cell density cultivation of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 in shake flasks. The formulated medium comprises four components: a buffer system (K2HPO4: 12.54 g/L and KH2PO4: 2.31 g/L), vitamins (yeast extract: 12.0 g/L), salts (NaCl: 5.0 g/L and MgSO4: 0.24 g/L), and carbon and nitrogen sources (D-Glucose: 6.0 g/L and NH4Cl: 1.5 g/L). Notable characteristics of this medium were: high capacity phosphate buffer system (89 mM phosphate); 1:1 molar ratio between D-Glucose and NH4Cl; and yeast extract providing trace elements and a secondary carbon and nitrogen source. Growth experiments revealed that an OD600nm of 9 was attained after 24 hours of cultivation at 37 oC. This phase of growth was largely fuelled by glucose and NH4Cl. After 48 hours, the OD600nm reached 11, which was fuelled by the mixture of carbohydrates, lipids and proteins in yeast extract. Broth\u2019s pH varied between 5.5 and 7.8 during cultivation, which was in the range conducive for growth of E. coli. In comparison, the OD600nm of E. coli reached 1.4, 3.2, and 9.2 for three commonly used complex media; Nutrient Broth, LB Lennox, and Tryptic Soy Broth, respectively, over 48 hours under identical culture conditions. In addition, the formulated medium was able to maintain a large viable cell population for a longer period of time (three days) relative to Tryptic Soy Broth. Thus, preliminary data suggested that the formulated medium holds potential for use as a high cell density aerobic growth medium for Gram-negative bacteria.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1406/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Evolutionarily related Sacbrood virus and Deformed wing virus evoke different transcriptional responses in the honeybee which may facilitate horizontal or vertical transmission of these viruses', ['Eugene V Ryabov', 'Jessica M Fannon', 'Jonathan D Moore', 'Graham R Wood', 'David J Evans'], u'2015-09-30', u'Sacbrood virus (SBV) and deformed wing virus (DWV) are evolutionarily related positive-strand RNA viruses, members of the Iflavirus group, which infect the honeybee Apis mellifera, but have strikingly different levels of virulence when transmitted orally. Honeybee larvae orally infected with SBV usually accumulate high levels of the virus, which halts larval development and causes insect death. In contrast, oral DWV infection at the larval stage usually causes asymptomatic infection with low levels of the virus, although high doses of ingested DWV could lead to DWV replicating to high levels. We investigated effects of DWV and SBV infection on the transcriptome of honeybee larvae and pupae using global RNA-Seq and real-time PCR analysis. This showed that high levels of SBV replication resulted in down-regulation of the genes involved in cuticle and muscle development, together with changes in expression of putative immune-related genes. In particular, honeybee larvae with high levels of SBV replication, with and without high levels of DWV replication, showed concerted up-regulated expression of antimicrobial peptides (AMPs), and down-regulated expression of the prophenoloxidase activating enzyme (PPAE) together with up-regulation of the expression of a putative serpin, which could lead to the suppression of the melanisation pathway. The effects of high SBV levels on expression of these immune genes were unlikely to be a consequence of SBV-induced developmental changes, because similar effects were observed in the honeybee pupae infected by injection. We suggest that the effects of SBV infection on the honeybee immunity could be an adaptation to horizontal transmission of the virus. Up-regulation of the expression of AMP genes in the SBV-infected brood may contribute to protection of the SBV virus particles in dead larvae from bacterial degradation. Suppression of the melanisation may also reduce the loss of infectivity of SBV in the larvae. Therefore it is possible that activation of AMP expression and suppression of melanisation could increase ability of SBV to be transmitted horizontally via cannibalization route. We observed no changes of AMPs and the melanisation pathway genes expression in the orally infected larvae with high levels of DWV replication alone. In the injected pupae, high levels of DWV alone did not alter expression of the tested melanisation pathway genes, but resulted in up-regulation of the AMPs, which could be contributed to the effect of DWV on the regulation of AMP expression in response to wounding. We suggest that the effects of single DWV infection on the expression of these immune-related genes could reflect evolutionary adaptations of DWV to vertical transmission. Up-regulation of AMPs is costly and suppression of melanisation may increase susceptibility to infections, therefore these changes may have negative impact on honeybee survival and, consequently, of the survival of DWV.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1405/', ['Entomology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Parasitology', 'Virology'], [u'School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick', u'Warwick Systems Biology Centre, University of Warwick', u'Biomedical Sciences Research Complex, University of St. Andrews']]
[u'Agricolae - Ten years of an open source statistical tool for experiments in breeding, agriculture and biology', ['Felipe De Mendiburu', 'Reinhard Simon'], u'2015-09-29', u'Plant breeders and educators working with the International Potato Center (CIP) needed freely available statistical tools. In response, we created first a set of scripts for specific tasks using the open source statistical software R. Based on this we eventually compiled the R package agricolae as it covered a niche. Here we describe for the first time its main functions in the form of an article. We also review its reception using download statistics, citation data, and feedback from a user survey. We highlight usage in our extended network of collaborators. The package has found applications beyond agriculture in fields like aquaculture, ecology, biodiversity, conservation biology and cancer research. In summary, the package agricolae is a well established statistical toolbox based on R with a broad range of applications in design and analyses of experiments also in the wider biological community .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1404/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Visual Analytics'], [u'Departamento de Estadistica e Informatica, Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina', u'Universidad Nacional Agraria La Molina', u'International Potato Center']]
[u'Effects of early and late cheiloplasty on anterior part of maxillary dental arch development in infants with unilateral complete cleft lip and palate', ['Silvia V Valentova-Strenacikova', 'Radovan Malina'], u'2015-09-28', u'Objectives. The objective of this study is to compare the impact of early and late reconstruction of complete unilateral cleft lip and palate on the growth and development of the front of the dentoalveolar arch. Methods. This study was carried out in the years 2012 - 2015 at the Clinic of Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery in Banska Bystrica. Infants with unilateral complete cleft lip and palate were divided into 2 groups according to the timing of lip reconstruction. Group A consisted of infants with early lip reconstruction - realised in the first 14 days of life. Group B consisted of infants with later lip reconstruction - realised in the third month of age. Maxillary dental casts were obtained for each child in four periods \u2013 in the first 14 days of life, in the third month, in the sixth month and in the age of one year. These were followed by the identification, measurement and evaluation of anthropometric parameters. Results. Significant differences were occurred after the reconstruction of the lips in linear and angle measurements between infants in the A and B groups. Conclusion. The early surgical reconstruction of the lips in the first 14 days of life has a positive effect on the growth and development of the anterior segment of the dentoalveolar arch. Early lip reconstruction forms a continuous pressure on the frontal segment, resulting in the earlier remedy of anatomical properties and creates appropriate conditions for the best development of this area.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1402/', ['Dentistry', 'Otorhinolaryngology', 'Pediatrics', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Clinic of Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, F. D. Roosevelt Hospital', u'Department of Biology and Ecology, Matej Bel University']]
[u'Sparc: a sparsity-based consensus algorithm for long erroneous sequencing reads', ['Chengxi Ye', 'Sam Ma'], u'2015-09-27', u'Motivation: The third generation sequencing (3GS) technology generates long sequences of thousands of bases. However, its error rates are estimated in the range of 15-40%, much higher than the previous generation (approximately 1%). Fundamental tasks such as genome assembly and variant calling require us to obtain high quality sequences from these long erroneous sequences. Results: In this paper we describe a versatile and efficient linear complexity consensus algorithm Sparc that builds a sparse k-mer graph using a collection of sequences from the same genomic region. The heaviest path approximates the most likely genome sequence (consensus) and is sought through a sparsity-induced reweighted graph. Experiments show that our algorithm can efficiently provide high-quality consensus sequences with error rate <0.5% using both PacBio and Oxford Nanopore sequencing technologies. Compared with the existing approaches, Sparc calculates the consensus with higher accuracy, uses 80% less memory, and is 5x faster, approximately. Availability: The source code is available for download at http://sourceforge.net/p/sparc-consensus/code/ and a testing dataset is available: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/trng8vdaeqywx1e/AAASJesLVAJZcbORkU9f4LuBa?dl=0 (Please copy the link to a browser to access if directly clicking the link fails)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1401/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Computer Science, University of Maryland', u'Computational Biology and Medical Ecology Lab, State Key Laboratory of Genetic Resources and Evolution, Kunming Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Exome sequencing and prediction of long-term kidney allograft function', ['Laurent Mesnard', 'Thangamani Muthukumar', 'Maren Burbach', 'Carol Li', 'Huimin Shang', 'Darshana Dadhania', 'John R Lee', 'Vijay K Sharma', 'Jenny Xiang', 'Caroline Suberbielle', 'Maryvonnick Carmagnat', 'Nacera Ouali', 'Eric Rondeau', 'John J Friedewald', 'Michael M Abecassis', 'Manikkam Suthanthiran', 'Fabien Campagne'], u'2015-09-27', u'Current strategies to improve graft outcome following kidney transplantation consider information at the HLA loci. Here, we used exome sequencing of DNA from ABO compatible kidney graft recipients and their living donors to determine recipient and donor mismatches at the amino acid level over entire exomes. We estimated the number of amino acid mismatches in transmembrane proteins, more likely to be seen as foreign by the recipient\u2019s immune system, and designated this tally as the allogenomics mismatch score (AMS). The AMS can be measured prior to transplantation with DNA for potential donor and recipient pairs. We examined the degree of relationship between the AMS and post-transplantation kidney allograft function by linear regression. In a discovery cohort, we found a significant inverse correlation between the AMS and kidney graft function at 36 months post-transplantation (n=10 recipient/donor pairs; 20 exomes) (r2>=0.57, P<0.05). The predictive ability of the AMS persists when the score is restricted to regions outside of the HLA loci. This relationship was validated using an independent cohort of 24 recipient donor pairs (n=48 exomes) (r2>=0.39, P<0.005). In an additional cohort of living and mostly intra-familial recipient/donor pairs (n=19, 38 exomes), we validated the association after controlling for donor age at time of transplantation. Finally, a model that controls for donor age, HLA mismatches and time post-transplantation yields a consistent AMS effect across these three independent cohorts (P<0.05). Taken together, these results show that the AMS is a strong predictor of long-term graft function in kidney transplant recipients.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/854/', ['Genomics', 'Immunology', 'Nephrology'], [u'The HRH Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdulaziz Alsaud Institute for Computational Biomedicine, Weill Cornell Medical College', u'Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medical College', u'Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Weill Cornell Medical College', u'Department of Transplantation Medicine, New York Presbyterian Hospital', u'Genomics Core Facility, Weill Cornell Medical College', u"Laboratoire d'histocompatibilit\xe9, Assistance Publique - H\xf4pitaux de Paris, H\xf4pital Saint Louis", u'UMR1155, Institut national de la sant\xe9 et de la recherche m\xe9dicale', u'Service des Urgences N\xe9phrologiques et Transplantation R\xe9nale, Assistance Publique - H\xf4pitaux de Paris, H\xf4pital Tenon', u'Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University', u'Comprehensive Transplant Center, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine']]
[u'A critical new ankylosaur specimen from the Wessex Formation of the Isle of Wight', ['Stuart Pond', 'Sarah Strachan', 'Darren Naish', 'Martin Simpson'], u'2015-09-27', u'Ankylosaurs (Dinosauria, Ankylosauria) have been known from the Lower Cretaceous English Wealden for over 170 years. Three Wealden ankylosaurian species are currently recognised: Hylaeosaurus armatus and Polacanthus rudgwickensis from the Wealden Sub-basin of Sussex, and Polacanthus foxii from both the Wessex Sub-basin of the Isle of Wight and the Wealden Sub-basin. Within recent years all have been interpreted as close relatives within the clade Polacanthidae or Polacanthinae, the monophyly of which is controversial. Most views of polacanthines as a whole are based on substantially better remains from North America. Despite the familiarity of Hylaeosaurus and Polacanthus, many questions remain about their anatomy, taxonomy and relationships and a thorough re-appraisal of the British taxa are needed. We discuss a new ankylosaur discovered in 1994 in the Wessex Formation at Chilton Chine, Isle of Wight. This partial skeleton (including limb and limb girdle elements, vertebrae and osteoderms) is one of the most complete ankylosaurs ever found in the UK and has the potential to resolve many questions about these dinosaurs. It has been provisionally referred to P. foxii but differs in several respects from the holotype and referred specimens of this taxon. Each bone has been recorded using photogrammetry and we have reconstructed the skeleton in 3D. The histology of the sacral shield shows a plywood-like structure with extensive, well ordered structural fibres, in contrast to previously reported Polacanthus specimens. Initial findings suggest that the specimen represents a new taxon. Its implications for Early Cretaceous ankylosaur diversity and taxonomy will be discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1399/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Histology'], [u'Ocean and Earth Science, National Oceanography Centre, University of Southampton', u'Island Gems']]
[u'Microbial interactions and implications for oil biodegradation process in mangrove sediments', ['Adriana Daudt Grativol', 'Albany Marchetti', 'Rita M Wetler-Tonini', 'Thiago M Venancio', 'Carlos EN Gatts', 'Fabiano L Thompson', 'Carlos E Rezende'], u'2015-09-27', u'Mangrove sediment harbors a unique microbiome and is a hospitable environment for the growth of a diverse group of bacteria capable of oil biodegradation. Our goal was to understand bacterial community dynamics from mangrove sediments under heavy-oil contamination stress, and to look for common patterns that may be associated with oil biodegradation is such environments. We tested the hypothesis of a two-phase pattern of petroleum biodegradation, already reported in the literature, where key events in the degradation process take place in the first three weeks after the contamination. Two sample sites with different oil pollution history were compared through T-RFLP analyses and using a pragmatic approach based on the Microbial Resource Management Framework. Our data corroborated the already reported two-phase pattern of oil biodegradation, although the original proposed explanation is questioned, opening up the possibility to consider other plausible hypothesis of microbial interactions as the main drivers of this pattern.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1398/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Centro de Bioci\xeancias e Biotecnologia/ Laborat\xf3rio de Ci\xeancias Ambientais, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense', u'Centro de Bioci\xeancias e Biotecnologia/ Laborat\xf3rio  de Qu\xedmica e Fun\xe7\xf5es de Prote\xednas e Pept\xeddeos, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense Darcy Ribeiro', u'Centro de Ci\xeancias e Tecnologia/ Laborat\xf3rio de Ci\xeancias F\xedsicas, Universidade Estadual do Norte Fluminense', u'Instituto de Biologia, CCS, Laborat\xf3rio de Microbiologia, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Solid phase extraction and metabolic profiling of exudates from living copepods', ['Erik Selander', 'Jan Heuschele', 'Goran M Nylund', 'Georg Pohnert', 'Henrik Pavia', 'Oda  Bjrke', 'Larisa A Pender-Healy', 'Peter Tiselius', 'Thomas  Kirboe'], u'2015-09-26', u'Copepods are ubiquitous in aquatic habitats. They exude bioactive compounds that mediate mate finding and induce defensive traits in prey organisms. Little is, however, known about the chemical nature of the copepod exometabolome that contributes to the chemical landscape in pelagic habitats. Here we describe the development of a closed loop solid phase extraction setup that allows for extraction of exuded metabolites from live copepods. We captured exudates from male and female Temora longicornis and analyzed the content with high resolution LC-MS. Chemometric methods revealed 87 compounds that constitute a specific chemical pattern either qualitatively or quantitatively indicating copepod presence. The majority of the compounds were present in both female and male exudates, but nine compounds were mainly or exclusively present in female exudates and hence potential pheromone candidates. Copepodamide G, known to induce defensive responses in phytoplankton, was among the ten compounds of highest relative abundance in both male and female extracts. The presence of copepodamide G shows that the method can be used to capture and analyze chemical signals from living source organisms. We conclude that solid phase extraction in combination with metabolic profiling of exudates is a useful tool to develop our understanding of the chemical interplay between pelagic organisms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1397/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'University of Gothenburg, Department of Marine Sciences', u'Technical University of Denmark, Centre for Ocean Life, National Institute of Aquatic Resources', u'Friedrich Schiller University, Institute for Inorganic and Analytical Chemistry', u'University of Oslo, Department of Biosciences', u'Georgia Institute of Technology, School of Biology', u'University of Gothenburg, Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences']]
[u'Behavioral modulation of the coexistence between Apis melifera and Varroa destructor: A defense against colony collapse?', ['Joyce F Santos', 'Flavio C Coelho', 'Pierre-Alexandre J Bliman'], u'2015-09-26', u'Colony Collapse Disorder has become a global problem for beekeepers and for the crops which depend on bee polination. Multiple factors are known to increase the risk of colony colapse, and the ectoparasitic mite Varroa destructor that parasitizes honey bees (Apis melifera) is among the main threats to colony health. Although this mite is unlikely to, by itself, cause the collapse of hives, it plays an important role as it is a vector for many viral diseases. Such diseases are among the likely causes for Colony Collapse Disorder. The effects of V. destructor infestation are disparate in different parts of the world. Greater morbidity - in the form of colony losses - has been reported in colonies of European honey bees (EHB) in Europe, Asia and North America. However, this mite has been present in Brasil for many years and yet there are no reports of Africanized honey bee (AHB) colonies losses. Studies carried out in Mexico showed that some resistance behaviors to the mite - especially grooming and hygienic behavior - appear to be different in each subspecies. Could those difference in behaviors explain why the AHB are less susceptible to Colony Collapse Disorder? In order to answer this question, we propose a mathematical model of the coexistence dynamics of these two species, the bee and the mite, to analyze the role of resistance behaviors in the overall health of the colony, and, as a consequence, its ability to face epidemiological challenges.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1396/', ['Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'School of Applied Mathematics, Funda\xe7\xe3o Getulio Vargas', u'Inria']]
[u'Intrinsic disorder in biomarkers of insulin resistance, hypoadiponectinemia, and endothelial dysfunction among the type 2 diabetic patients', ['Osama H. Jiffri', 'Fadwa M. Al-Sharif', 'Essam H. Jiffri', 'Vladimir N. Uversky'], u'2015-09-26', u'Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a chronic and progressive disease that is strongly associated with the all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. The present study aimed to analyze the abundance and functionality of intrinsically disordered regions in several biomarkers of insulin resistance, adiponectin, and endothelial dysfunction found in the T2DM patients. In fact, in comparison to controls, obese T2DM patients are known to have significantly higher levels of inter-cellular adhesion molecule (iCAM-1), vascular cell adhesion molecule (vCAM-1), and E-selectin, whereas their adiponectin levels are relatively low. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that these selected biomarkers (iCAM-1, vCAM-1, E-selectin, and adiponectin) are characterized by the noticeable levels of intrinsic disorder propensity and high binding promiscuity, which are important features expected for proteins serving as biomarkers. Within the limit of studied groups, there is an association between insulin resistance and both hypoadiponectinemia and endothelial dysfunction.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1395/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology'], [u'Department of Medical Laboratory Technology, Faculty of Applied Medical Sciences, King Abdul Aziz University', u'Department of Molecular Medicine, University of South Florida']]
[u"An explicit solution for calculating optimum spawning stock size from Ricker's stock recruitment curve", ['Mark D. Scheuerell'], u'2015-09-25', u'Ricker\u2019s stock recruitment model is widely used to describe the spawner-offspring relationship for fishes. After model fitting, the spawning stock size that produces the maximum sustainable yield (SMSY), and the harvest corresponding to it (UMSY), are two of the most common biological reference points of interest to fisheries managers. However, to date there has been no explicit solution for either reference point because of the transcendental nature of the equation needed to solve for them. Therefore, numerical or statistical approximations have been used for more than 30 years. Here I provide explicit formulae for calculating both SMSY and UMSY in terms of the productivity and density-dependent parameters from Ricker\u2019s model.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1394/', ['Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Northwest Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service']]
[u'Ship noise in an urban estuary extends to frequencies used for echolocation by endangered killer whales', ['Scott Veirs', 'Val Veirs', 'Jason D Wood'], u'2015-09-25', u'Combining calibrated hydrophone measurements with vessel location data from the Automatic Identification System, we estimate underwater sound pressure levels for 1,582 unique ships that transited the core critical habitat of the endangered Southern Resident killer whales during 28 months between March, 2011, and October, 2013. Median received spectrum levels of noise from 2,812 isolated transits are elevated relative to median background levels not only at low frequencies (20-30 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz from 100-1000 Hz), but also at high frequencies (5-13 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz from 10,000-96,000 Hz). Thus, noise received from ships at ranges less than 3 km extends to frequencies used by odontocetes like the southern resident killer whales for communication and echolocation. Broadband received levels (11.5-40,000 Hz) near the shoreline in Haro Strait (WA, USA) for the entire ship population were 111 \xb1 6 dB re 1 \u03bcPa on average. Mean ship speed was 14.4 \xb1 4.1 knots. Most ship classes show a linear relationship between received level and speed with a slope near +1 dB/knot. Assuming near-spherical spreading based on a transmission loss experiment we compute mean broadband source levels for the ship population of 173 \xb1 7 dB re 1 \u03bcPa @ 1 m without accounting for frequency-dependent absorption. Spectrum, 1/12- octave, and 1/3-octave source levels for the whole population have median values that are comparable to previous measurements and models at most frequencies, but for select studies may be relatively low below 200 Hz and high above 20,000 Hz. Median source spectrum levels peak near 50 Hz for all 12 ship classes, have a maximum of 159 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz @ 1 m for container ships, and vary between classes by about 25 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz @ 1 m at low frequencies (50 Hz), 13 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz @ 1 m at mid-frequencies (1,000 Hz), and 5 dB re 1 \u03bcPa2/Hz @ 1 m at high frequencies (10,000 Hz). Below 200 Hz, the class-specific median spectrum levels bifurcate with large commercial ships grouping as higher power noise sources. Within all ship classes spectrum levels vary more at low frequencies than at high frequencies, and the degree of variability is almost halved for classes that have smaller speed standard deviations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/955/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Beam Reach Marine Science and Sustainability School', u'Department of Physics, Colorado College', u'SMRU, LLC']]
[u'Genome-wide identification of hypoxia-induced enhancer regions', ['Nick Kamps-Hughes', 'Jessica L Preston', 'Melissa A Randel', 'Eric A Johnson'], u'2015-09-25', u'Here we present a genome-wide method for de novo identification of enhancer regions and apply it to find enhancers that have increased activity after hypoxia. The method links fragmented genomic DNA to the transcription of randomer molecule identifiers and measures the functional enhancer activity of the library by massively parallel sequencing. We transfected a Drosophila melanogaster library into S2 cells in normoxia and hypoxia, and assayed 4,599,881 genomic DNA fragments in parallel. The locations of the enhancer regions strongly correlate with genes up-regulated after hypoxia and previously described enhancers. Novel enhancer regions were identified and integrated with RNAseq data and transcription factor motifs to describe the hypoxic response on a genome-wide basis as a complex regulatory network involving multiple stress-response pathways. This work provides a novel method for high-throughput assay of enhancer activity and the genome-scale identification of hypoxia-activated enhancers in Drosophila.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1393/', ['Biotechnology', 'Genomics'], [u'Institute of Molecular Biology, University of Oregon']]
[u'Two continents and two names for a Neotropical colletid bee species (Hymenoptera: Colletidae: Neopasiphaeinae): Hoplocolletes ventralis (Friese, 1924)', ['Eduardo A B Almeida', 'Fabio B Quinteiro'], u'2015-09-25', u'Neopasiphaeinae bees (Apoidea: Colletidae) are well known for their Amphinotic distribution in the Australian and Neotropical regions. Affinities between colletid taxa in Australia and South America have been speculated for decades, and have been confirmed by recent phylogenetic hypotheses that indicate a biogeographic scenario compatible with a trans-Antarctic biotic connection during the Paleogene. Despite this proximity, no species occurs on both sides of the Pacific Ocean, but the Neotropical species Hoplocolletes ventralis (Friese, 1924), which was described as an Australian taxon due to an error in the specimen labels. This mistake was recognized by C.D.Michener 50 years ago. We herein report that the same labeling problem also happened with Dasycolletes chalceus Friese, 1924, which remained as a tentatively placed species in the Australian genus Leioproctus until now. Moreover, Dasycolletes chalceus is interpreted as a synonym of Dasycolletes ventralis. We also provide a revised diagnosis for Hoplocolletes, describe the male of H. ventralis in detail for the first time, including a comparative study of its genitalia and associated sterna.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1392/', ['Entomology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Biologia - FFCLRP, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo']]
[u'Relationship between small-scale catch-per-unit-effort and abundance in New Zealand abalone (p\u0101ua, Haliotis iris) fisheries', ['Edward R Abraham', 'Philipp Neubauer'], u'2015-09-25', u"Catch-per-unit-effort (CPUE) is commonly used as an index of abundance in fishery stock assessments, but CPUE may be misleading, as a number of global fishery collapses have been attributed to a hyper-stable CPUE. In abalone (Halitidae family) fisheries, CPUE at large spatial scales may be hyper-stable because of aggregating behaviour and serial-depletion, whereby fishers sequentially fish areas with no corresponding decline in CPUE. Obtaining detailed spatial information in abalone fisheries might mitigate this problem, allowing CPUE to be used more confidently in these fisheries. Here, we report on the use of newly-developed high-resolution Global Positioning System (GPS) data loggers in New Zealand's blacklip abalone (p\u0101ua, Haliotis iris) fisheries. Using these data loggers, we tested, via a fish-down experiment, if CPUE is a reliable indicator of abundance at a small spatial scale and over a period of months. In the experiment, hyper-stability at small spatial scales occurred at high abundance, but CPUE reflected the estimated depletion level at the end of experimental fishing. This experiment suggests that the GPS data loggers provide a promising avenue to track CPUE at a small spatial scale, and to assess spatial resource use in New Zealand's p\u0101ua fisheries.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1388/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Dragonfly Data Science']]
[u'DNA methylation within intron 2 of the Stat1 gene is reduced in colon tissue from interleukin-10 gene-deficient mice compared with healthy control mice', ['Matthew PG Barnett', 'Anna E Russ', 'Warren C McNabb', 'Nicole C Roy'], u'2015-09-25', u'Background.  Epigenetic influences have been implicated in the development of autoimmunity. While such mechanisms have been linked to mouse models of intestinal inflammation, and to human inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), the involvement of epigenetic mechanisms in the pathogenesis of intestinal inflammation in the interleukin-10 gene-deficient (Il10 \u2013/\u2013 ) mouse model of IBD has not yet been reported. This study investigated the hypothesis that changes observed in the expression of Stat1 and Ppara in colon tissue of Il10 \u2013/\u2013  mice are associated with differential methylation of CpG sites within key regulatory regions of these genes.  Methods.  Colon tissue was collected from Il10  \u2013/\u2013  and C57BL/6JArc mice at 6 (pre-inflammation) or 12 (established inflammation) weeks of age. Methylation levels of CpG sites within selected regions of the Stat1  and Ppara genes were assessed using MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry in DNA extracted from mouse colon tissue.  Results.  Methylation of specific CpG sites within intron 2, but not the proximal promoter, of the Stat1 gene was reduced in colon tissue from Il10 \u2013/\u2013  mice at 12 weeks of age compared with colon tissue C57BL/6JArc mice at 12 weeks of age.  Discussion.  These data provide preliminary evidence that DNA methylation is altered in the Il10 \u2013/\u2013  mouse model of IBD, and this may be linked with changes in the expression levels of genes that play a key role in inflammation. Further studies are required to confirm these observations, and to establish a causative link between methylation at specific sites (such as intron 2 of Stat1) and gene expression.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1391/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Immunology'], [u'Food Nutrition & Health Team, Food & Bio-based Products Group, AgResearch Limited', u'Nutrigenomics New Zealand', u'AgResearch Limited', u'Riddet Institute, Massey University', u'Gravida: National Centre for Growth and Development']]
[u'Odd versus even? An investigation on the impact of number of food items on plating preferences', ['Andy T Woods', 'Charles Michel', 'Charles Spence'], u'2015-09-24', u'We report on the results of a series of large-scale computer-based preference tests (conducted at The Science Museum in London and online) that evaluated for the first time the widely-held belief in kitchens that food should be plated in odd rather than even numbers of elements on the plate in order to maximize the eye appeal of a dish. Participants were presented with pairs of plates of food showing odd versus even number of seared scallops (3 vs. 4), arranged in a line or as a polygon, on either a round or square white plate. No consistent evidence for a preference for 3 or 4 number of food items was found. The implications of these results are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1390/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Crossmodal Research Laboratory, Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford']]
[u'Video game experience improves sustained and divided attention but does not affect resistance to cognitive fatigue', ['James Brooks', 'Craig P Speelman', 'Guillermo Campitelli'], u'2015-09-24', u'An increasing number of occupations involve tasks requiring sustained and divided attention skills. These tasks are often susceptible to the effects of cognitive fatigue, resulting in poorer performance and increasing the likelihood of human error. Previous research indicates that those who regularly play action video games have superior performance on cognitive tests that are related to sustained attention and divided attention performance. Few studies, however, have investigated how performance on these tasks change as time-on-task increases. The current study compared the performance of 18 video game players (VGPs) and 24 non-video game players (NVGPs) on the NASA Multi-Attribute Task Battery (version 2; MATB-II) before and after completing a 60-minute sustained attention task. Results indicated that at the multivariate level, VGPs demonstrated superior sustained attention compared to NVGPs, however both groups experienced similar levels of cognitive fatigue with an increasing number of errors and greater reaction time variability as time-on-task increased. In addition, at the multivariate level, VGPs demonstrated superior divided attention performance compared to NVGPs, however univariate analyses revealed a more complex relationship. Further, the performance of both groups improved in the second session compared to the first, indicating a learning effect rather than a fatigue effect. Whilst the current results demonstrate VGP superiority in sustained and divided attention tasks, there was no evidence that these abilities assist with resisting the effects of cognitive fatigue.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1389/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'School of Psychology and Social Science, Edith Cowan University']]
[u'Using LIDAR Remote Sensing for identifying suitable habitat for a critically endangered carnivore in Nahuelbuta Range in South-Central Chile', ['Gonzalo Carrasco', 'Raul Briones'], u'2015-09-23', u'The range of Nahuelbuta has an outstanding biogeographic importance and high endemism of flora and fauna. In this range, the Valdivian temperate forest extends north along the maritime watershed, while the sclerophyllous forest extends south along the continental slope and northern coastal plain. The L. fulvipes that inhabits this habitat is considered at high extinction risk due to both demographic and ecological factors, such as disease, predation by cougars or other fox species. Our study was conducted in Caram\xe1vida using camera traps (N = 84) during October 2011-March 2012 to observe L. fulvipes, this information was correlated with LIDAR data to generate: elevation model, forest height; and the raw data were used to estimate the vertical vegetation coverage for seven different layers of height, cover, leaf area index and vertical complexity index. Our results indicate the presence of 17 positive results with L. fulvipes watch. The values of occupancy, occupancy corrected for detectability, and detectability, indicate that the proportion of stations where the species was recorded was 20%, but the actual ratio would reach 25% after correcting for detectability. The presence data and vegetation analyzes indicate correlations with tree cover larger than 20 meters high and with a high diversity of vegetation in the vertical profile, which may propose the presence of sites with potential presence and corridors for this species. We conclude that this methodology can generate highly accurate and relevant vegetation variables that may provide some guidance regarding which are the areas where a species is potentially distributed and the design of corridors that may enrich their habitat.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1387/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'Ecosystem Management Division, Bioforest S.A.']]
[u'Possible odour-mediated attraction of flies to Bacillus subtilis NRS-762 stationary phase culture', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2015-09-23', u'Signalling helps connects different organisms in the biosphere. This research note describes the possible concentration-dependent odour mediated attraction of flies to stationary phase aerobic liquid cultures of Bacillus subtilis NRS-762 cultivated on an open orbital shaker at 25 oC. Greater odour pungency correlated with more intense \u201cforaging\u201d attempts, which suggested the compounds\u2019 possible behaviour modifying effects. Additionally, co-occurrence of optical density decline and increase in odour pungency suggested volatile compound(s) secretion might be a cell survival response mediated by a cell density-based signalling mechanism. Flies were not attracted to odourous stationary phase cultures of other common bacteria (Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1, Pseudomonas aeruginosa PRD-10, and Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5, which suggested species-specificity of the volatile compound(s)). Altogether, volatile compound(s) might serve as interkingdom messengers to enlist flies for dispersing B. subtilis to habitats with more favourable conditions in coping with possible irreversible decline in habitability, and operate in parallel with other in situ mechanisms such as cannibalism and sporulation that help B. subtilis ride out short- and long-term environmental fluctuations, respectively. Interested researchers are invited to build upon the preliminary findings.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/541/', ['Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Request type prediction for Web robot and Internet of Things traffic', ['Derek Doran', 'Nathan Rude'], u'2015-09-22', u'The volume of Web robot traffic seen by Web servers and clouds continue to increase with the popularity of Internet of Things (IoT) devices. Such traffic exhibits decidedly different statistical and resource request patterns compared to humans. However, the optimizations ensuring high levels of Web systems and cloud performance requires traffic to exhibit the statistical and behavioral patterns of humans, not robots. This necessitates the design of novel Web system optimizations to handle Web robot traffic effectively. Caches are a basic component of high performing Web systems, but their effectiveness relies on accurate resource request prediction. In this paper, we explore a suite of classifiers for the resource request type prediction problem for robot traffic. Our analysis reveals: (i) a striking difference in the request patterns of robots across multiple servers from the same domain; and (ii) that Elman neural networks hold promise to predict request types despite these differences.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1386/', ['Computer Networks and Communications', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Computer Science and Engineering, Wright State University']]
[u'Expression patterns of two Carbonic anhydrase genes, Na+/K+-ATPase and V-type H+-ATPase in the freshwater crayfish, Cherax quadricarinatus, under different pH', ['Muhammad Yousuf Ali', 'Ana Pavasovic', 'Peter B Mather', 'Peter J Prentis'], u'2015-09-22', u'Osmoregulation and systemic acid-base balance in decapod crustaceans are largely controlled by a set of transport-related enzymes including carbonic anhydrase (CA), Na + /K + -ATPase (NKA) and V-type- H + -ATPase (HAT). Variable pH levels and changes in osmotic pressure can have a significant impact on the physiology and behaviour of crustaceans. Therefore, it is crucial to understand the mechanisms via which an animal can maintain its internal pH balance and regulate the movement of ions into and out of its cells. Here, we examined expression patterns of the cytoplasmic (CAc) and membrane-associated form (CAg) of CA, NKA \u03b1 subunit and HAT subunit a in gills of the freshwater crayfish Cherax quadricarinatus. Expression levels of the genes were measured at three pH levels, pH 6.2, 7.2 (control) and 8.2 over a 24 hour period. All genes showed significant differences in expression levels, either among pH treatments or over time. Expression levels of CAc were significantly increased at low pH and decreased at high pH conditions 24 h after transfer to these treatments. Expression increased in low pH after 12 h, and reached their maximum level by 24 h. The membrane-associated form CAg showed changes in expression levels more quickly than CAc. Expression increased for CAg at 6 h post transfer at both low and high pH conditions, but expression remained elevated only at low pH (6.2) at the end of the experiment. Expression of CqNKA significantly increased at 6 h after transfer to pH 6.2 and remained elevated up to 24 h. Expression for HAT and NKA showed similar patterns, where expression significantly increased 6 h post transfer to the low pH conditions and remained significantly elevated throughout the experiment. The only difference in expression between the two genes was that HAT expression decreased significantly 24 h post transfer to high pH conditions. Overall, our data suggest that CAc, CAg, NKA and HAT gene expression is induced at low pH conditions in freshwater crayfish. Further research should examine the physiological underpinnings of these changes in expression to better understand systemic acid/base balance in freshwater crayfish.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1385/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'School of Earth, Environmental and Biological Sciences, Queensland University of Technology', u'School of Biomedical Sciences, Queensland University of Technology', u'Institute of Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of Technology', u'Institute of Future Environments, Queensland University of Technology']]
[u'The effects of the conversion and enlargement of digital radiological image from DICOM to JPEG image format on distance measurement', ['Frane Mihanovic', 'Tonci Batinic', 'Vesna Capkun', 'Ana Jeroncic', 'Stipan Jankovic', 'Zeljko Dujic'], u'2015-09-21', u'Introduction. Conversion of images from DICOM format to other image formats affects measuring distances in images. Materials and methods. Distances in DICOM or JPEG images were measured with different zoom using 1.5T MRI scanning of human diaphragm during spontaneous breathing and during low and high lung volumes. Results. Correlation between distance measurements in mm and pixels at all zoom factors on DICOM and JPEG images ranged from r=0.9981-1.00 and 95% CI for r of 0.9972 - 0.9986 to 1.00 - 1.00 and the p-value in all correlations was <0.001. Results of comparing the difference in measured dimensions on DICOM and JPEG images in mm for F1.0 indicate that differences in measurements are small (0.1 mm average). Image zooming in JPEG for F1.8 compared to the idealized pixel size values with that zoom on average increases the number of pixels for 1 (range from 5 pixels increase to 4 pixels loss). Conclusions. The values of linear regression equation for all zoom factors (F1.0 - F1.8) indicate that distance measurement on the zoomed JPEG image is not suitable for obtaining accurate results of distance measurements. The distance measurements in JPEG images without zoom are entirely in accordance with distance measurements in DICOM images. In the zoomed images distance measurements differ from the results of distance measurements in DICOM format and for the possible use of the results it is necessary to provide data on zoom factor, physical size of the pixel spacing and the values of the linear regression equation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1383/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'University Department for Health Studies, University of Split', u'University Hospital Centre Split', u'School of Medicine, University of Split']]
[u'Graphical illustration for explaining mass spectrum fingerprinting in microbial identification', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2015-09-21', u'Pattern recognition is commonly used for identifying an unknown entity from a set of known objects curated in a database \u2013 and find use in various applications such as fingerprint matching and microbial identification. Whether matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) or electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry (ESI MS/MS), mass spectrometry is increasingly used in identifying microbes in the research and clinical settings via species- or strain-specific mass spectrum signatures. Although the existence of unique biomarkers - such as ribosomal proteins - underpins mass spectrometry-based microbial identification, absence of corresponding genome or proteome information in publicly accessible databases for a large fraction of extant microbes significantly hamper biomarker (and species) assignment. Nevertheless, the reproducible generation of species-specific mass spectrum across different growth and environmental conditions opens up the possibility of identifying unknown microbes via comparing peak positions between mass spectra, without biomarker identities. Thus, the mass spectrum fingerprinting (pattern recognition) approach circumvents the need for biomarker information, where alignment of as many mass peaks as possible (particularly, those of phylogenetic significance) between spectra is the basis for identification. In contrast, variation in gene expression and metabolism (and biomolecules\u2019 abundances) with environmental and nutritional factors, meant that alignment of peak intensities, though desired, is not a strict requirement in species annotation. With large diversity of biomolecules present in each microbial species, mass spectrometry-based microbial identification is inherently data-intensive, which requires statistical tools and computers for implementing pattern recognition. Nevertheless, relegation of algorithmic details to the backend of software obfuscates the approach\u2019s conceptual underpinnings and hinders students\u2019 understanding. More important, mathematics-centric approaches for explaining the conceptual basis of pattern recognition, though useful, are generally less pedagogically accessible to students relative to visual illustration techniques. This short primer describes a simple graphical illustration (featuring three examples common in mass spectrometry-based biotyping workflows) that attempts to explain the conceptual underpinnings of mass spectrum fingerprinting, and highlights caveats for avoiding misidentifications.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/580/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Novena']]
[u'Bayesian characterization of uncertainty in species interaction strengths', ['Christopher Wolf', 'Mark Novak', 'Alix I. Gitelman'], u'2015-09-18', u'Considerable effort has been devoted to the empirical estimation of species interaction strengths. This effort has focused primarily on statistical significance testing and on obtaining point estimates of parameters that contribute to interaction strength magnitude, leaving characterizations of estimation uncertainty and distinctions between the deterministic and stochastic contributions to variation largely unconsidered. Here we consider a means of quantifying interaction strength uncertainty by formulating an observational method for estimating per capita attack rates as a Bayesian statistical model. This formulation permits the explicit incorporation of multiple sources of uncertainty. In doing so we highlight the informative nature of several so-called non-informative prior choices in modeling the sparse data typical of predator feeding surveys and provide evidence for the superior performance of a new neutral prior choice. A case study application shows that while Bayesian point estimates may be made to correspond with those obtained by frequentist approaches, estimation uncertainty as described by the 95% intervals is more biologically realistic using the Bayesian method in that the lower bounds of the Bayesian posterior intervals for the attack rates do not include zero when the occurrence of a given predator-prey interaction is in fact observed. This contrasts with bootstrap confidence intervals that often do contain zero in such cases. The Bayesian approach provides a straightforward, probabilistic characterization of interaction strength uncertainty. In doing so it provides a framework for considering both the deterministic and stochastic drivers of species interactions and their impact on food web dynamics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1382/', ['Ecology', 'Statistics'], [u'Statistics, Oregon State University', u'Integrative Biology, Oregon State University']]
[u'Scanning electron microscope analysis of enamel microstructure in a Polycotylid (Plesiosauria) from the Pierre Shale Group, South Dakota, U.S.A.', ['Jason J Testin'], u'2015-09-18', u'The teeth of polycotylid plesiosaurs are generally simple, cone shaped, non-serrated and only slightly recurved without distinct carinae. The surface of crowns are characterized by a series of vertical enamel wrinkles that are more highly developed on the lingual surface of the crown, and decrease in width and number toward the apex. Some of the most promising research related to fossil dentition, involves the analysis of surface and internal dental microstructure. This study, is an attempt to examine and describe polycotylid dental microstructure. It gives an overview of polycotylid plesiosaur enamel and dentine microstructures using a scanning electron microscope. Enamel type and structures vary, based on its position on the surface of the crown, and its perceived strength requirements. The dentition layer is \u201choneycombed\u201d with tubular structure, possibly to provide nourishment to fast growing crowns. The study of crown microstructures may lead to a better understanding of polycotylid niche preference in the late Cretaceous oceans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1381/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Physical Science, Physics and Preengineering, Iowa Western Community College']]
[u'Transgenerational effects enhance specific immune response in a wild passerine', ['Juli Broggi', 'Ramon C. Soriguer', 'Jordi Figuerola'], u'2015-09-18', u'Vertebrate mothers transfer diverse compounds to developing embryos that can affect their development and final phenotype (i.e. maternal effects). However, the way such effects modulate offspring phenotype, in particular their immunity remains unclear. To test the impact of maternal effects on offspring development we treated with Newcastle disease virus (NDV) vaccine wild breeding house sparrow (Passer domesticus) females in Sevilla, SE Spain. Female parents were vaccinated when caring first broods, and their offspring from their following brood were evaluated for their immune response to the same vaccine and to the PHA inflammatory test. Vaccinated chicks from vaccinated mothers developed a stronger specific response that was related to maternal NDV antibody concentration. Chick\u2019s carotenoid concentration and total antioxidant capacity in blood were negatively related to NDV antibody concentration, whereas no relation with PHA response was found. Specific NDV antibodies could not be detected on 10 day old control chicks from vaccinated mothers, implying that maternally transmitted antibodies promote offspring specific immunity through a priming effect, while other immunity components remain unaffected. Maternally transmitted antibodies are short-lived, depend on maternal circulation levels and may be adaptive when chicks are frequently exposed to the same pathogens as their mothers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1380/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Virology', 'Zoology', 'Immunology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Wetland Ecology, Esatci\xf3n Biol\xf3gica de Do\xf1ana, CSIC', u'Research Unit of Biodiversity. (UMIB, UO/CISC/PA), University of Oviedo', u'Etologia y Conservacion de la Biodiversidad, Estaci\xf3n Biol\xf3gica de Do\xf1ana, CSIC']]
[u'Seasonal availability of edible underground and aboveground carbohydrate resources to human foragers on the Cape south coast, South Africa', ['Jan C De Vynck', 'Richard M Cowling', 'Alastair J Potts', 'Curtis W Marean'], u'2015-09-18', u'The coastal environments of South Africa\u2019s Cape Floristic Region (CFR) provide some of the earliest and most abundant evidence for the emergence of cognitively modern humans. In particular, the south coast of the CFR provided for hunter-gatherers a uniquely diverse resource base, namely marine shellfish, game, and carbohydrate-bearing plants, especially those with underground storage organs (USOs). It has been hypothesized that these resource underpinned the continuity of human occupation in the region since the Middle Pleistocene. Very little research has been conducted on the foraging potential of carbohydrate resources in the CFR. This study focuses on the seasonal availability of plants with edible carbohydrate by assessing their visibility to foragers at six-weekly intervals over a two-year period in four vegetation types on South Africa\u2019s Cape south coast. A total of 52 edible plant species were recorded across all vegetation types. Of these, 33 species were geophytes with edible USOs and 21 species had aboveground edible carbohydrates. Limestone Fynbos had the richest flora, followed by Strandveld, Renosterveld and lastly, Sand Fynbos. The availability of USO species differed across vegetation types and between survey years. The number of available USO species was highest for a six-month period from winter to early summer (Jul-Dec) across all vegetation types. Months of lowest species\u2019 availability were in mid-summer to early autumn (Jan-Apr); the early winter (May-Jun) values were variable, being highest in Limestone Fynbos. However, even during the late summer carbohydrate \u201ccrunch\u201d, 25 carbohydrate bearing species were visible across the four vegetation types. Overall, the plant-based carbohydrate resources available to Stone Age foragers of the Cape south coast, especially USOs belonging to the Iridaceae family, are likely to have comprised a reliable and nutritious source of calories over most of the year. The winter and early spring months likely coincided with a scarcity of protein, especially marine invertebrates, but an abundance of carbohydrates. At these times, plant carbohydrates, especially USOs, may have comprised 100% of dietary intake. However, recognising which vegetation types are most productive, identifying hotspots of productivity and distinguishing between edible and toxic USOs must have required considerable cognitive skills.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1379/', ['Anthropology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Centre for Coastal Palaeosciences, Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University', u'Institute of Human Origins, School of Human Evolution and Social Change, Arizona State University']]
[u'Fibroblast growth factors as tissue repair and regeneration therapeutics', ['Quentin M Nunes', 'Yong Li', 'Changye Sun', 'Tarja K Kinnunen', 'David G Fernig'], u'2015-09-18', u'Cell communication is central to the integration of cell function required for the development and homeostasis of multicellular animals. Proteins are an important currency of cell communication, acting locally (auto-, juxta-, or paracrine) or systemically (endocrine). The fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family contributes to the regulation of virtually all aspects of development and organogenesis, and after birth to tissue maintenance, as well as particular aspects of organism physiology. In the West oncology has been the focus of translation of FGF research, whereas in China and to an extent Japan a major focus has been to use FGFs in repair and regeneration settings. These differences have their roots in research history and aims. The Chinese drive into biotechnology and the delivery of engineered clinical grade FGFs by a major Chinese research group were important enablers in this respect. The Chinese language clinical literature is not widely accessible. To put this into context, we provide the essential molecular and functional background to the FGF communication system covering FGF ligands, the heparan sulfate and Klotho co-receptors and FGF receptor (FGFR) tyrosine kinases. We then summarise a selection of case reports that demonstrate the efficacy of engineered recombinant FGF ligands in treating a wide range of conditions that require tissue repair / regeneration. Alongside the functional reasons why application of exogenous FGF ligands does not lead to cancers are described. Together, this highlights that the FGF ligands represent a major opportunity for clinical translation, that has been largely overlooked in the West.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1378/', ['Biochemistry', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties', 'Translational Medicine'], [u'Department of Molecular and Clinical Cancer Medicine, NIHR Liverpool Pancreas Biomedical Research Unit, University of Liverpool', u'Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool', u'Department of Biology, School of Applied Sciences, University of Huddersfield']]
[u'Is heart rate variability related to cognitive performance in visuospatial working memory?', ['Muthukrishnan Suriya-Prakash', 'Gurja John-Preetham', 'Ratna Sharma'], u'2015-09-18', u'In the current study, we investigated the relation between cognitive performance and heart rate variability in visuospatial working memory. We used a visuospatial working memory paradigm involving simultaneous encoding, maintenance, active manipulation and retrieval to simulate routine daily activities. Subjects performed the visuospatial working memory paradigm which had 3 memory loads and simultaneous ECG recording was acquired for measuring heart rate variability. Based on the performance in the visuospatial working memory task, subjects were segregated into two groups: Good performers and poor performers. Two major findings emerged in this study. First, the heart rate variability decreased with an increase in the working memory load. Second, good performers had relatively higher heart rate variability compared to poor performers while performing the visuospatial working memory task. Our results highlighted the influence of cognitive performance on heart rate variability. In summary, the current study indicates that the heart rate variability during the visuospatial working memory task could predict the qualitative differences in the cognitive performance between the individuals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1377/', ['Neuroscience', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Stress and Cognitive Electroimaging Laboratory, Department of Physiology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences']]
[u'Efficient duplicate rate estimation from subsamples of sequencing libraries', ['Christopher Schroder', 'Sven Rahmann'], u'2015-09-18', u'In high-throughput sequencing (HTS) projects, the sequenced fragments\u2019 duplicate rate is a key quality metric. A high duplicate rate may arise from a low amount of input DNA and many PCR cycles. Many methods for downstream analyses require that duplicates be removed. If the duplicate rate is high, most of the sequencing effort and money spent would have been in vain. Therefore, it is of considerable interest to estimate the duplicate rate after sequencing only a small subsample at low depth (multiplexed with other libraries) for quality control before running the full experiment. In this article, we provide an elementary mathematical framework and an efficient computational approach based on quadratic and linear optimization to estimate the true duplicate rate from a small subsample. Our method is based on up-sampling the occupancy distribution of the reads\u2019 copy numbers. Compared to an existing approach, we use an explicit and easily explained mathematical model that accurately inverts the sub-sampling process. We evaluate the performance of our approach in comparison to that of the existing method on several artificial and real datasets. The same ideas can be used for diversity estimation in general. Software implementing our approach is available under the MIT license.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1298/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Genome Informatics and Human Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Duisburg-Essen', u'Computer Science XI, TU Dortmund']]
[u'Agriculture-independent, sustainable, fail-safe and efficient food production by autotrophic single-cell protein', ['Ingvar Bogdahn'], u'2015-09-17', u'Food production with plants consumes large amounts of water, occupies large areas of land and cannot guarantee food security beyond the 21st century. Industrial agriculture in particular, is destructive to the environment, fosters climate change in profound ways, deteriorates public health and causes high \u201dhidden costs\u201d. Single-cell protein (SCP) represents an alternative with minimal carbon-, water- and land footprints. However, when grown on biowastes of industrial agriculture, heterotrophic SCP does not truly improve sustainability or food security.\nThis hypothesis paper proposes autotrophic SCP bioprocess designs which enable sustainable, fail-safe and efficient production of edible biomass from CO2 and N2 or NH3. They can be driven by H2, CO or HCOOH from several sustainable sources. Besides H2O-electrolysis and syngas, surprisingly fossil fuel may provide an effectively carbon-negative and cheap supply of H2 through the decomposition of CH4 or oil. Most promising bioprocess designs consist of 2-stages. In the first stage, homoacetogenic bacteria fix CO2 up to 10 more efficiently than plants, and secrete it as acetate. In the second stage, selected microbes grow on the acetate and thereby form edible biomass. Bacteria have unique features including N2-fixation, H2S tolerance and O2-tolerant hydrogenases for fast light-independent growth. Eukaryotic microalgae are already approved as food and exhibit oxygenic photosynthesis which partly replaces solar-panels, seawater desalination and H2O-electrolyzers. Photoheterotrophic growth on acetate decouples these benefits from inefficient endogenous CO2 fixation. Slow gas mass-transfer, poor light distribution and expensive cell harvest are major challenges arising from the cultivation in liquid media. To cope with this, microbes grow as hydrated biofilms that are exposed directly to substrate gases, and that can be dry-harvested. Two suitable bioreactors are presented and adaptations for 2-stage designs are proposed. Since provision with substrates is expensive, two strategies are proposed for the safe extraction of substrates from food-grade as well as non-food- grade biowastes via partial anaerobic digestion. Additionally, alkalic pH and hydroxides formed at the cathode during electrolysis may be used to precipitate CO2 from the air as carbonates. In two use cases, 2-stage designs with solar-powered H2-generation from seawater were estimated to exceed productivity of wheat 20-200 fold, for moderate and arid climates respectively. Preliminary cost estimates and data about direct and indirect subsidies of industrial agriculture lead to the hypothesis that autotrophic SCP likely outperforms industrial agriculture not only in ecological but also in economical aspects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1279/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioengineering', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Not affiliated']]
[u'Poster abstracts of GCB 2015', ['Martin Eisenacher', 'Jorg Rahnenfuhrer', 'Axel Mosig', 'Sven Rahmann'], u'2015-09-17', u'The German Conference on Bioinformatics (GCB) is an annual research conference bringing together researchers and practitioners in bioinformatics in Central Europe.\nThe poster session is and always has been an important part of GCB, as it gives an excellent overview of current bioinformatics research topics in Germany and other countries.At GCB 2015, there will be 57 posters on display, whose abstracts (together with the poster number) are collected in the present document. Poster prizes will be presented to the presenting author(s) of the best posters, as selected by the program committee.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1350/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'Medical Proteome Center, Ruhr University Bochum', u'Department of Statistics, TU Dortmund University', u'Bioinformatics, Department of Biophysics, Ruhr University Bochum', u'Genome Informatics, Institute of Human Genetics, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Sonification of reference markers for auditory graphs: Effects on non-visual point estimation tasks', ['Oussama Metatla', 'Nick Bryan-Kinns', 'Tony Stockman', 'Fiore Martin'], u'2015-09-17', u"Research has suggested that adding contextual information such as reference markers to data sonification can improve interaction with auditory graphs. This paper presents results of an experiment that contributes to quantifying and analysing the extent of such benefits for an integral part of interpreting graphed data: point estimation tasks. We examine three pitch-based sonification mappings; pitch-only, one-reference, and multiple-references that we designed to provide information about distance from an origin and assess their effects on users' performances when completing point estimation tasks. Results showed that the addition of reference tones increases users accuracy with a trade-off for task completion times, and that the multiple-references mapping is particularly effective when dealing with points that are positioned at the midrange of a given axis.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1376/', ['Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary University of London']]
[u'Fossils, footprints and fakes', ['Mark R Graham'], u'2015-09-17', u'The Natural History Museum has undertaken a series of annual field trips to Morocco for collections enhancement purposes. Specimens are collected directly from various locations and also obtained from local collectors and dealers, introduced to the group by trusted local contacts with whom the museum has built a relationship. The 2015 fieldtrip in late February/early March was very eventful, with sudden snowfall and floods encountered, hidden mountainside quarries visited, little publicised dinosaur trackways discovered and fossil fakery by skilled preparators witnessed at first hand!. This presentation highlights the scientific value and potential pitfalls of such collaborations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1375/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Ethical Issues', 'Science Policy'], [u'The Conservation Centre, Core Research Laboratories, The Natural History Museum']]
[u'A nomenclature for the standard linguistic description of the kinematics of networks', ['Jaderick P Pabico', 'Eliezer A Albacea'], u'2015-09-17', u"The rate of change \\(\\partial M/\\partial t\\) of some metric \\(M\\) measured as one of the kinematic properties of a network described by a graph \\(G\\) transitioning from \\(G(V_{t}, E_{t})\\) to \\(G(V_{t+\\partial t}, E_{t+\\partial t})\\) over time range \\(\\partial t\\) has been described in the literature with linguistic descriptions that often provide ambiguity. For example, one rate of change \\((\\partial M/\\partial t)_{1}\\) has been described as ``dynamic'' and another \\((\\partial M/\\partial t)_{2}\\) as ``highly dynamic'' but \\((\\partial M/\\partial t)_{1}>(\\partial M/\\partial t)_{2}\\). We propose in this paper a nomenclature for the standard linguistic description of the kinematics of networks in the hope that description in the literature will be standardized and understood with the corresponding quantitative meaning. We termed a network as ``static'' when \\(\\partial M/\\partial t=0\\), as ``non-volatile'' when \\(0<\\partial M/\\partial t\\le 1\\), and as ``volatile'' when \\(\\partial M/\\partial t>1\\). In the development of the linguistic nomenclature, we borrowed heavily from the standard used in signal theory to provide linguistic descriptions to various ranges for \\(\\partial M/\\partial t>1\\). We described the kinematics of example real-world networks where the proposed nomenclature was used: (1) The collaboration network of Filipino Computer Scientists; (2) The network created from friendship relations among Batangas and Laguna Facebook users; and (3) The network created from the followed-follower relations among the top ten globally influential Twitter users.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1374/', ['Network Science and Online Social Networks', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Institute of Computer Science, University of the Philippines Los Ba\xf1os']]
[u'Towards extracellular secretion of poly-\u03b2-hydroxybutyric acid (PHB) biodegradable polymer', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2015-09-17', u'Plastics\u2019 bioaccumulation and biomagnification potential, poor biodegradablility, and emission of hazardous chemicals during incineration, pose challenging disposal problems. Biodegradable, bio-renewable and biocompatible bacterial lipid-based storage polymer, poly-\u03b2-hydroxybutyric acids (PHB), offers a good functional replacement for petroleum-derived plastics. Originally nature\u2019s solution for helping bacteria moderate fluctuations in nutrient availability, progressive elucidation of PHB biosynthetic pathway guided efforts aimed at overproducing the polymer via genetic engineering, or optimizing fermentation conditions and growth medium composition. Although increasing PHB production titer improves efficiency and reduces cost, the high price and lack of competitiveness of PHB in the consumer market stems largely from intracellular accumulation of PHB - where extraction and purification is the most significant cost component of PHB production. Additionally, use of toxic solvents and surfactants during PHB extraction may also contaminate the product. Thus, compared with increasing production titer, eliminating the extraction step would go further in reducing PHB\u2019s relative price (cost), and improves production sustainability; thereby, motivating the development of techniques for inducing bacterial secretion of PHB. Given society\u2019s goal of mitigating climate change through reducing dependence on petroleum-derived chemicals, extracellular secretion of PHB would also help realize a bio-feedstock based chemical industry \u2013 where secreted PHB serves as precursors for synthesizing a range of platform chemicals. By tuning the size of PHB inclusion bodies and targeting them to appropriate cellular exporters through pathway engineering, recent research has described the creation of a recombinant Escherichia coli strain capable of secreting substantial fraction of size-delimited PHB granules. Possible routes for increasing the amount of extracellularly exported PHB include: engineering PHB granules suitable for extracellular export, exploring and creating alternative export pathways and transporters through rational genetic engineering and/or directed evolution, and creating \u201cleaky\u201d bacterial strains for facile PHB secretion. Overall, achieving progress on one or more of the above challenges would help advance PHB\u2019s role in a bio-renewable chemical industry. Additional topics such as the utility of PHB as bacterial storage polymers; the genes and metabolic pathways mediating its synthesis; and fermentation and extraction methods enabling its production provide context for a holistic discussion on the evolutionary origins, contemporary rediscovery and production of this incredibly useful and versatile biopolymer.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/534/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Novena']]
[u'Colourless agar for enhanced colour contrast between microbial colonies and solid medium', ['Wenfa Ng', 'Yen-Peng Ting'], u'2015-09-17', u'Solid medium enables spatially-resolved simultaneous cultivation of different microbes in a simple and relatively low-cost format useful for preliminary screening of microbial diversity. Lack of colour contrast between colonies and agar, however, hampers colony identification by automated image analysis \u2013 thus, presenting a challenge for phenotype screening experiments and viable cell counting. Since microbes secrete pigments of myriad hues, this research sought to develop a colourless agar - which when placed on coloured paper of suitable hue \u2013 would enhance the colour contrast between agar and colonies of any colour. Nevertheless, the concept is confounded by formation of coloured compounds between medium components during autoclave sterilisation, which, in this study, was prevented by dissolving glucose and ammonium chloride in two separate solutions containing other medium components. Upon mixing the two solutions after heat sterilisation, a colourless agar was obtained \u2013 which remained colourless even after adding sterile yeast extract (max: 1 g/L) for providing essential vitamins to microbes unable to synthesise them. Culture experiments revealed good growth of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 (ATCC 53868), Pseudomonas protegens Pf-5 (ATCC BAA-477), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (ATCC 15442), and Bacillus subtilis (ATCC 8473) with cell yield positively correlated with yeast extract concentration. Additionally, identical viable cell concentration and colonies of similar morphologies were observed on both the colourless and LB agar; thus, suggesting that no inhibitory compounds were formed during agar preparation. Collectively, using commonly used buffer components, salts and nutrients, a colourless agar was prepared by segregating chromogenic compounds during heat sterilisation; thereby, opening up its potential use in enhancing colour contrast between colonies and agar medium for revealing finer details of pure culture colonies, or more accurate automated colony identification and counting in screening and viable cell count assays.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/89/', ['Bioengineering', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Direct dilution of cell aliquot for high temporal resolution bacterial surface charge measurement', ['Wenfa Ng', 'Yen-Peng Ting'], u'2015-09-17', u'Bacterial surface charge (SC) mediates important cell-environment and microbe-host interactions, and its accurate and precise measurement by microelectrophoresis requires removing metabolites adhered to the cell surface - where repeated centrifugation and washing by buffers is the gold standard method. Unfortunately, the need for time-consuming centrifugation limits the temporal resolution of sampling and interrogation of experimental dynamics; especially for samples requiring immediate treatment post sampling. Herein, the feasibility of diluting cell aliquots with buffer as a one-step sample preparation technique for SC measurement was investigated by characterising the effects of dilution factor, type of cation, and buffer conductivity on measuring SC of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 grown in LB medium. Results indicated that dilution factor was critical to accurate SC measurement since low signal-to-noise ratios in high or low cell concentration samples generated substantial error. Type of buffer cation was also important since putative binding of high affinity cations to the cell surface underestimated SC of negatively-charged bacteria. Finally, although high conductivity buffers enabled greater removal of adsorbed metabolites through increased charge screening, a broader statistical distribution of measured SC was also observed \u2013 which, at extreme conductivity values, led to inaccurate data, probably due to removal of both intrinsic cell surface ions and exogenous adsorbed metabolites. Altogether, one-step dilution of cell aliquot with deionized water reliably reproduced E. coli SC values obtained via the gold standard approach; however, since the ensemble of secreted metabolites is bacteria/medium specific, distinct diluent and optimal parameters exist for each system. The described methodology may find use in preparing samples for cell surface characterisation studies, where it would help reduce sample preparation time \u2013 and thus, improve temporal resolution at which scientific questions can be probed and answered.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/91/', ['Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Psychophysiology and high-performance cognition - a brief review of the literature', ['Benjamin Cowley'], u'2015-09-17', u'The psychophysiological method can be used to detect some simple cognitive states such as arousal, attentiveness, or mental workload. This approach can be especially interesting when cognition has some productive purpose, as in knowledge work, and tends to be related to human-computer interaction (HCI). However more interesting for applied purposes are acts of coordinated high-level cognition. High- level (or higher-order) cognition (HLC) is typically associated with decision making, problem solving, and executive control of cognition and action. Further, an intuitive approach for assessing whether someone is engaged in HLC is to measure their performance of a known task. Given this, it is reasonable to define high-performance cognition (HPC) as HLC under some performance restriction, such as real-time pressure or expert skill level. Such states are also interesting for HCI in work, and their detection represents an ambitious aim for using the psychophysiological method. We report a brief review of the literature on the topic.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1373/', ['Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'BrainWork Research Centre, Finnish Institute of Occupational Health', u'Cognitive Brain Research Unit, Institute of Behavioural Sciences, University of Helsinki']]
[u'Development of a semi-defined medium for high cell density cultivation of Escherichia coli in shake flask culture system: Part 2', ['Wenfa Ng', 'Yen-Peng Ting'], u'2015-09-16', u'The characteristics of the culture vessel determine, to a large extent, the type of growth medium suitable for use. For example, most growth media for high cell density cultivation are designed for expensive bioreactors operating either in continuous or fed-batch mode, where provision of additional nutrients and/or removal of metabolic waste products from the basal medium \u2013 comprising salts, buffer components and small amount of carbon and nitrogen sources - help increase biomass yield by maintaining culture conditions within the range conducive for growth. The inexpensive and ubiquitous shake flask, in contrast, is usually operated in batch mode and contains, at the outset, a comprehensive medium with all necessary nutrients for conversion into biomass and, also serves as a repository for secreted metabolites - some of which are detrimental for cell growth. Thus, designing medium for high cell density cultivation in shake-flask is an optimization process aiming to increase biomass formation while reducing toxic metabolite secretion. This preprint reports improvements to a previously reported semi-defined medium for high cell density aerobic cultivation of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 (ATCC 53868) in shake flask. Specifically, by reducing the concentrations of glucose (from 6.0 to 4.0 g/L) and ammonium chloride (from 1.5 to 1.0 g/L), the following improvements were obtained: a shorter diauxic lag phase (3 versus 5 hours); a higher maximal optical density (12.0 versus 11.0) in a shorter total culture period (27 versus 48 hours), and smaller pH variation during cultivation (6.0 to 7.6 versus 5.5 to 7.8). Similar to the earlier study, glucose and yeast extract served as principal carbon sources in separate growth phases for E. coli in the improved formulated medium (FMimproved). Specifically, an OD600nm of 6.6 was attained after 9 hours of growth on glucose at 37 oC. Following a lag phase of 3 hours, growth resumed on yeast extract and the OD600nm reached 12.0 after 27 hours. The broth\u2019s pH decreased from 7.1 to 6.0 during the first growth phase, whereupon it gradually rose to 7.6 at the end of culture. A smaller pH decrease along with higher biomass yield in the first growth phase suggested that the lower glucose concentration in FMimproved might have prevented overflow metabolism - and associated negative effects on growth - thus, resulting in a shorter diauxic lag phase and total culture period. Collectively, increase in cell yield, as well as decrease in total culture time and a shorter diauxic lag phase arise from a small reduction in glucose concentration - which suggested that an optimum exist, beyond which, occurrence of overflow metabolism would reduce cell yield and biomass formation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/117/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biotechnology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Development of a semi-defined medium for high cell density cultivation of Escherichia coli in shake flask culture system: Part 1', ['Wenfa Ng', 'Yen-Peng Ting'], u'2015-09-16', u'Sufficient quantities of cells of consistent characteristics are needed for studying processes - at the population level and beyond - in many areas of applied microbiology research. Nevertheless, given the relatively low biomass yield of many commercial culture media in shake flasks, producing the requisite biomass by cell culture is generally the rate-limiting step. This work reports the formulation of a semi-defined medium that enabled aerobic high cell density cultivation of Escherichia coli DH5\u03b1 (ATCC 53868) in shake flasks. The formulated medium (FM) comprises: a buffer system (K2HPO4: 12.54 g/L and KH2PO4: 2.31 g/L); vitamins and trace elements (yeast extract: 12.0 g/L); salts (NaCl: 5.0 g/L and MgSO4: 0.24 g/L); and carbon and nitrogen sources (D-Glucose: 6.0 g/L and NH4Cl: 1.5 g/L). Notable characteristics of this medium are: high buffer capacity (89 mM phosphate), 1:1 molar ratio between D-Glucose and NH4Cl, and yeast extract providing trace elements and a secondary source of carbon and nitrogen. Preliminary data revealed that an OD600nm of 9 was attained after 24 hours of cultivation at 37 oC \u2013 most probably fuelled by glucose and NH4Cl. At 48 hours, the OD600nm reached a maximal value of 11 with yeast extract providing the necessary nutrients for cell growth and biomass formation. The broth\u2019s pH varied between 5.5 and 7.8 during cultivation. For comparison, the maximum OD600nm of E. coli grown in three commonly used complex media: Nutrient Broth, LB Lennox, and Tryptic Soy Broth (TSB) were 1.4, 3.2 and 9.2, respectively, under identical culture conditions. Finally, FM maintained the viability of a larger population for three days - compared to a population collapse observed in TSB after one day. Taken together, the present findings suggest that the formulated medium may find use as a high cell density aerobic growth medium for E. coli in shake flask. Part 2 of this work describes improvements in medium performance - specifically, higher cell yield as well as a shorter diauxic lag phase and total culture period \u2013 achieved through a small reduction in D-Glucose and NH4Cl concentrations in the medium composition. A preprint of the work is available at https://peerj.com/preprints/117v1.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/115/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Microbes in deionized water: Implications for maintenance of laboratory water production system', ['Wenfa Ng', 'Yen-Peng Ting'], u'2015-09-16', u'Microbes, with their diverse metabolic capabilities and great adaptability, occupy almost every conceivable ecological niche on Earth \u2013 thus, could they survive in the oligotrophic (i.e., nutrient-poor) deionized (DI) water that we use for our experiments? Observations of white cauliflower-like lumps and black specks in salt solutions after months of storage in plastic bottles prompted the inquisition concerning the origin and nature of the \u201ccontaminants.\u201d Hypothesising that the \u201ccontaminants\u201d may be microbes from DI water, a series of growth experiments was conducted to detect and profile the microbial diversity in fresh DI water - produced on a just-in-time basis by a filter-cum-ion-exchange system with tap water as feed. While microbes could also be present on the surfaces and headspace of the unsterilized polyethylene bottles, investigating whether microbes are present in freshly produced DI water provides a more stringent performance test of the production system. Inoculation of DI water on R2A agar followed by multi-day aerobic cultivation revealed the presence of a wide variety of microbes (total viable cell concentration of ~103 colony forming units (CFU) per mL) with differing pigmentations, growth rates as well as colony sizes and morphologies. Additionally, greater abundance and diversity of microbes was recovered at 30 oC relative to 25 and 37 oC; most probably due to adaptation of microbes to tropical ambient water temperatures of 25 to 30 oC. Comparative experiments with tap water as inoculum recovered a significantly smaller number and diversity of microbes; thereby, suggesting that monochloramine residual disinfectant in tap water was effective in inhibiting cell viability. In contrast, possible removal of monochloramine by adsorption onto ion-exchange resins \u2013 and thus, alleviation of a source of environmental stress - might explain the observed greater diversity and abundance of viable microbes in DI water. Collectively, this study confirmed the presence of microbes in fresh DI water \u2013 and suggested a possible source for the \u201ccontaminants\u201d in prepared salt solutions. Propensity of microbes for forming biofilm on various surfaces suggested that intermittent flow in just-in-time DI water production provided opportunities for cell attachment and biofilm formation in the system during water stagnation, and subsequent dislodgement and resuspension of cells upon water flow. Thus, regular maintenance and cleaning of the production system should help reduce DI water\u2019s microbial load. Additionally, simple and low-cost culture experiments on agar medium can provide a qualitative and semi-quantitative estimate of microbial diversity and viable cell concentration in DI water, respectively; which, along with regular monitoring of water resistivity or conductivity, comprise a trio of tests useful for detecting possible contamination or, deterioration of DI water\u2019s chemical and microbiological quality.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/181/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'The set of \\((N/2^i)\\)-distance graphs of \\(C_N\\) and its application to efficient information broadcast among \\(N\\) nodes over \\(K_N\\)', ['Jaderick P Pabico'], u'2015-09-16', u'The set \\(S\\) of \\(\\left(\\frac{N}{2^i}\\right)\\)-distance graphs of order \\(N\\) cycle graphs \\(\\mathbb{C}_N\\) is defined here as \\[S = \\left\\{ s_i= \\bigcup_1^{\\frac{N}{2^i}} \\mathbb{C}_{2^i} \\quad\\Bigg\\vert\\quad i=1,2, \\dots, \\log N\\right\\},\\] where w.o.l.o.g. \\(N=2^k\\), \\(\\forall k=2, 3, \\dots\\), and \\(\\log\\) is base two. The utility of the computation of \\(S\\) is demonstrated by a \\(\\mathcal{O}(|S| = \\log N)\\)-step implementation of various information broadcasts and their corresponding duals (i.e., reduction) among \\(N\\) completely-connected nodes \\(\\mathbb{K}_N\\) exchanging messages under a realistic \\((1, 1, 2)\\) communication model (i.e., concurrent one in-port and one out-port over a duplex connection). Information broadcast over \\(\\mathbb{K}_N\\) under \\((1,1,2)\\) is currently implemented with \\(\\mathcal{O}(N)\\) steps using a series of \\(N\\) circular 1-shift operations (or one circular \\(N\\)--shift). Algorithmically, the \\(i\\)th element \\(s_i\\in S\\) partially coincides with the \\(i\\)th dimension of a \\(\\mathbb{K}_N\\)-embedded \\((\\log N)\\)-cube.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1372/', ['Computer Networks and Communications', 'Distributed and Parallel Computing', 'Optimization Theory and Computation'], [u'Institute of Computer Science, University of the Philippines Los Ba\xf1os']]
[u'A review of dinosaurian body fossils from British Columbia, Canada', ['Iain J Reid'], u'2015-09-16', u'Since the 1900s, dinosaur fossils have been discovered from Jurassic to Cretaceous age strata, from all across the prairie provinces of Canada and the Western United States, yet little material is known from the outer provinces and territories. In British Columbia, fossils have long been uncovered from the prevalent mid-Cambrian Burgess Shale, but few deposits date from the Mesozoic, and few of these are dinosaurian. The purpose of this paper is to review the history of dinosaurian body fossils in British Columbia. The following dinosaurian groups are represented: coelurosaurians, thescelosaurids, iguanodontians, ankylosaurs and hadrosaurs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1369/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'1185 Graf Road']]
[u'Study of gallbladder cancer in the light of proteomics', ['Arpit Pradhan', 'Soham Saha', 'Shyamasree Ghosh'], u'2015-09-15', u'Gallbladder carcinoma (GBC) is a chronic malignancy of the gall bladder and intrahepatic and extrahepatic common bile ducts with a high mortality rate and forms the fifth common cancer of gastrointestinal tract globally. Women remain at higher risk than men and recent studies have reported the highest rate of incidence in women from Delhi, India. GBC treatment suffers from the disadvantage of lack of suitable biomarkers for early diagnosis of the disease. Different proteomic approaches including (i) 2D gel electrophoresis (ii) Mass spectroscopic studies (iii) Isobaric tags for relative and absolute quantization (iTRAQ) -based quantitativeproteomicsstudies are being employed for detection of biomarkers in order to undertake early diagnosis of the disease. In this review we focus on (i) risk factors in GBC, (ii) diagnosis and treatment, (iii) molecular markers, and (iv) proteomic studies in GBC. The future scope of this review lies in the identifying biomarkers of GBC, and may provide directions to unraveling future implications in disease treatment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1357/', ['Oncology'], [u'School of Biological Sciences, National Institute of Science Education and Research (NISER)']]
[u'Unbiased high-throughput characterization of mussel transcriptomic responses to sublethal concentrations of the biotoxin okadaic acid', ['Victoria Suarez-Ulloa', 'Juan Fernandez-Tajes', 'Vanessa Aguiar-Pulido', 'M. Veronica Prego-Faraldo', 'Fernanda Florez-Barros', 'Alexia Sexto-Iglesias', 'Josefina Mendez', 'Jose M. Eirin-Lopez'], u'2015-09-15', u'Background: Diarrhetic Shellfish Poisoning (DSP) Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs) represent a major threat for human consumers of shellfish. The biotoxin Okadaic Acid (OA), a well-known phosphatase inhibitor and tumor promoter, is the main responsible of acute DSP intoxications. Although several studies have described the molecular effects of high OA concentrations on sentinel organisms (e.g., bivalve molluscs), the effect of prolonged exposures to low (sublethal) OA concentrations is still unknown. In order to fill this gap, this work combines Next-Generation sequencing and custom-made microarray technologies to develop an unbiased characterization of the transcriptomic response of mussels during early stages of a DSP bloom. Methods: Mussel specimens were exposed to a HAB episode simulating an early stage DSP bloom (200 cells/L of the dinoflagellate Prorocentrum lima for 24 hours). Modifications in the expression of environmentally relevant transcripts were initially assessed using qPCR. The unbiased characterization of the transcriptomic responses triggered by OA was carried out using two complementary methods of cDNA library preparation: normalized and Suppression Subtractive Hybridization (SSH). Libraries were sequenced and read datasets were mapped to Gene Ontology and KEGG databases. A custom-made oligonucleotide microarray was developed based on these data, completing the expression analysis of digestive gland and gill tissues. Results: Our findings show that exposure to sublethal concentrations of OA is enough to induce gene expression modifications in the mussel Mytilus. Transcriptomic analyses revealed an increase in proteasomal activity, molecular transport, cell cycle regulation, energy production and immune activity in mussels. Oppositely, a number of transcripts hypothesized to be responsive to OA (notably the Serine/Threonine phosphatases PP1 and PP2A) failed to show substantial modifications. Both digestive gland and gill tissues responded similarly to OA, although expression modifications were more dramatic in the former, supporting the choice of this tissue for future biomonitoring studies. Discussion: Exposure to OA concentrations within legal limits for safe consumption of shellfish is enough to disrupt important cellular processes in mussels, eliciting sharp transcriptional changes as a result. By combining the study of cDNA libraries and a custom-made OA-specific microarray, our work provides a comprehensive characterization of the OA-specific transcriptome, improving the accuracy of the analysis of expresion profiles compared to single-replicated RNA-seq methods. The combination of our data with related studies helps understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying molecular responses to DSP episodes in marine organisms, providing useful information to develop a new generation of OA biomarkers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1371/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Toxicology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Florida International University, Chromevol Group', u'Wellcome Trust Center for Human Genetics, University of Oxford', u'School of Computing and Information Sciences, Florida International University', u'Department of Cellular and Molecular Biology, University of A Coruna', u'Centre for Nephrology, Royal Free Hospital, University College London']]
[u'Saline stress in Amaranthaceous plants and pH stress on lettuce', ['Eduardo A Molinari-Novoa'], u'2015-09-14', u'Two experiments were carried to test stress reactions on plants. First, salinity experiments were performed in hydroponical cultures of spinach and beets. While the results were statistically untenable, a negative correlation between salinity and nitrate reductases was found. Second, pH stress experiments were conducted on lettuce. The optimal range for lettuce growth is near neutrality. The present work is the presentation of the first (mostly negative) results of a series of ecophysiological experiments carried since 2011.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1370/', ['Agricultural Science'], [u'Department of Biology, "Augusto Weberbauer" Herbarium (MOL)']]
[u'Assessing conservation status of resident and migrant birds on Hispaniola with constant-effort mist-netting', ['John D Lloyd', 'Chris C Rimmer', 'Kent P McFarland'], u'2015-09-13', u'We analyzed temporal trends in mist-net capture rates of resident (n = 8) and overwintering Nearctic-Neotropical migrant (n = 3) bird species at two sites in montane broadleaf forest of the Sierra de Bahoruco, Dominican Republic, with the goal of providing quantitative information on population trends that could inform conservation assessments. We conducted sampling at least once annually during the winter months of January \u2013 March from 1997 \u2013 2010. We found evidence of steep declines in capture rates for three resident species, including one species endemic to Hispaniola. Capture rate of Rufous-throated Solitaire (Myadestes genibarbis) declined by 3.9% per year (95% CL = 0%, 7.3%), Green-tailed Ground-Tanager (Microlegia palustris) by 6.8% (95% CL = 3.9%, 8.8%), and Greater Antillean Bullfinch (Loxigilla violacea) by 4.9% (95% CL = 0.9%, 9.2%). Two rare and threatened endemics, Hispaniolan Highland-Tanager (Xenolegia montana) and Western Chat-Tanager (Calyptophilus tertius), showed statistically significant declines, but we have low confidence in these findings because trends were driven by exceptionally high capture rates in 1997 and varied between sites. Analyses that excluded data from 1997 revealed no trend in capture rate over the course of the study. We found no evidence of temporal trends in capture rates for any other residents or Nearctic-Neotropical migrants. We do not know the causes of the observed declines, nor can we conclude that these declines are not a purely local phenomenon. However, our findings, along with other recent reports of declines in these same species, suggest that a closer examination of their conservation status is warranted. Given the difficulty in obtaining spatially extensive, long-term estimates of population change for Hispaniolan birds, we suggest focusing on other metrics of vulnerability that are more easily quantified yet remain poorly described, such as extent of occurrence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1368/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Vermont Center for Ecostudies']]
[u'A generalized computer vision approach to mapping crop fields in heterogeneous agricultural landscapes', ['Stephanie Debats', 'Dee Luo', 'Lyndon Estes', 'Thomas J Fuchs', 'Kelly K Caylor'], u'2015-09-12', u'Smallholder farms dominate in many parts of the world, particularly Sub-Saharan Africa. These systems are characterized by small, heterogeneous, and often indistinct field patterns, requiring a specialized methodology to map agricultural land cover. Using a variety of sites in South Africa, we present a new approach to mapping agricultural fields, based on efficient extraction of a vast set of simple, highly correlated, and interdependent features, followed by a random forest classifier. We achieved similar high performance across agricultural types, including the spectrally indistinct smallholder fields as well as the more easily distinguishable commercial fields, and demonstrated the ability to generalize performance across large geographic areas. In sensitivity analyses, we determined multi-temporal information provided greater gains in accuracy than multi-spectral information.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1367/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Princeton University', u'Department of Operations Research & Financial Engineering, Princeton University', u'NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory', u'Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center', u'Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Princeton University']]
[u'The semantic basis of taste-shape associations', ['Carlos Velasco', 'Andy T Woods', 'Lawrence E Marks', 'Adrian David Cheok', 'Charles Spence'], u'2015-09-12', u'Previous research shows that people systematically match tastes with shapes. Here, we assessed the extent to which matching taste and shape stimuli share a common semantic space and whether semantically congruent versus incongruent taste/shape associations can influence the speed with which people respond to both shapes and taste words. In Experiment 1, we used semantic differentiation to assess the semantic space of both taste words and shapes. The results suggest a common semantic space containing two principal components (seemingly potency and evaluation) and two principal clusters, one including round shapes and the taste word \u201csweet\u201d, and the other including angular shapes and the taste words \u201csalty\u201d, \u201csour\u201d, and \u201cbitter\u201d. The former cluster appears more positively-valenced whilst less potent than the latter. In Experiment 2, two speeded classification tasks assessed whether congruent versus incongruent mappings of stimuli and responses (e.g., sweet with round versus sweet with angular) would influence participants\u2019 speed of responding, both to shapes and to taste words. The results revealed an overall effect of congruence that was driven mostly when the participants had to classify shapes with taste words as responses. These results are consistent with previous evidence suggesting a close relation (or crossmodal correspondence) between tastes and shape curvature that may derive from common semantic coding, perhaps along the sensory-discriminative and hedonic dimensions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1366/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Crossmodal Research Laboratory, Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Imagineering Institute', u'Xperiment', u'Sensory Information Processing, John B. Pierce Laboratory', u'School of Public Health and Department of Psychology, Yale University', u'School of Mathematics, Engineering, and Computer Science, City University']]
[u'Rates and modes of body size evolution in early carnivores and herbivores: a case study from Captorhinidae', ['Neil Brocklehurst'], u'2015-09-12', u'Body size is an extremely important characteristic, impacting on a variety of ecological and life-history traits. It is therefore important to understand the factors which may affect its evolution, and diet has attracted much interest in this context. A recent study, examining the evolution of the earliest terrestrial herbivores in the Late Carboniferous and Early Permian, concluded that in the four herbivorous clades examined there was a trend towards increased body size, and that this increase was more substantial than that observed in closely related carnivorous clades. However, this hypothesis was not based on quantitative examination, and phylogenetic comparative methods provide a more robust means of testing such hypotheses. Here, the evolution of body size within different dietary regimes is examined in Captorhinidae, the most diverse and longest lived of these earliest high fibre herbivores. Evolutionary models were fit to their phylogeny to test for variation in rate and mode of evolution between the carnivorous and herbivorous members of this clade, and an analysis of rate variation throughout the tree was carried out. Estimates of ancestral body sizes were calculated in order to compare the rates and direction of evolution of lineages with different dietary regimes. Support for the idea that the high fibre herbivores within captorhinids are being drawn to a higher adaptive peak in body size than the carnivorous members of this clade is weak. A shift in rates of body size evolution is identified, but this does not coincide with the evolution of high-fibre herbivory, instead occurring earlier in time and at a more basal node. Herbivorous lineages which show an increase in size are not found to evolve at a faster rate than those which show a decrease; in fact it is those which experience a size decrease which evolve at significantly higher rates. The opposite is true of the carnivorous lineages, suggesting that in captorhinids it is the carnivores which show the greater trend towards increased body size. It is possible the shift in rates of evolution is related to the improved food processing ability of the more derived captorhinids rather than a shift in diet, but the evidence for this is circumstantial.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1365/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde, Leibniz-Institut f\xfcr Evolutions- und Biodiversit\xe4tsforschung', u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Oxford']]
[u'An important plesiosaur discovery from the Oxford Clay: how cooperation between science and industry is benefitting palaeontology', ['Carl Harrington', 'Mark R Graham', 'Cliff Nicklin', 'Mark Wildman', 'Shona Tranter', 'Scott Moore-Fay', 'Simon Wills', 'Heather Middleton', 'Roger BJ Benson', 'Hilary Ketchum'], u'2015-09-12', u'The Peterborough Member of the Oxford Clay Formation is renowned for its abundant and well preserved marine reptile fossils. In recent years, however, the primary source of these fossils, the brick making industry, has gone into serious decline \u2013 so much so that there is only one remaining working quarry in the Lower Oxford Clay and, with the future of UK brick manufacturing unclear, the importance of this quarry to vertebrate palaeontology should not be underestimated. The Oxford Clay Working Group (OCWG) was set up in 2011, in collaboration with the quarry owners, to collect, protect and document vertebrate fossils from this very important resource. Despite collecting unassociated fossils, particularly teeth and isolated bones, efforts to secure articulated or disarticulated skeletons have been hampered by modern quarrying techniques and a change of practice in excavating to the most productive levels. Here we report on a newly recovered, partially articulated plesiosaur skeleton representing a fully mature individual, which was saved because of the combined efforts of the OCWG in conjunction with both the quarry owners and employees. The specimen, which has been safely conserved and secured by the group, will be deposited into an accredited institution and so made available for scientific study and, perhaps, public display. It is planned that the skull block is CT scanned which may not only provide hitherto unknown data relative to Plesiosauroidea but may help, together with other skeletal elements, to solve anatomical and taxonomic problems within Cryptoclididae and, perhaps, Elasmosauridae.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1364/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Oxford Clay Working Group', u'The Conservation Centre, Natural History Museum', u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Oxford', u'Oxford University Museum of Natural History']]
[u'Motion and morphometry in clinical populations', ['Heath R Pardoe', 'Rebecca Kucharsky Hiess', 'Ruben Kuzniecky'], u'2015-09-12', u'Introduction The relationship between participant motion, demographic variables and MRI-derived morphometric estimates was investigated in autism spectrum disorder (ASD), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and schizophrenia. Participant motion was estimated using resting state fMRI and used as a proxy measure for motion during T1-weighted MRI acquired in the same session. Analyses were carried out in scans qualitatively assessed as free from motion-related artifact.\nMethods Whole brain T1-weighted MRI and resting state fMRI acquisitions from the ABIDE, ADHD-200 and COBRE databases were included in our analyses. Motion was estimated using coregistration of sequential resting state volumes. Morphometric estimates were obtained using Freesurfer v5.3. We investigated if motion is related to diagnosis, age and gender, and scanning site. We further determined if there is a relationship between participant motion and cortical thickness, contrast, and volumetric estimates.\nResults 2131 participants were included in our analyses. Participant motion was higher in all clinical groups compared with healthy controls. Younger (age < 20 years) and older (age > 40 years) people move more than individuals aged 20 \u2013 40 years. Increased motion is associated with reduced average cortical thickness (-0.02 mm thickness per mm motion, p = 4.03\xd710-5) and cortical contrast (0.95% contrast reduction per mm motion, p = 5.25\xd710-11) in scans that have been qualitatively assessed as free from motion artifact.\nConclusions Participant motion is increased in clinical groups and is systematically associated with morphometric estimates. These findings indicate that accounting for participant motion may be important for improving the statistical validity of morphometric studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1363/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Statistics'], [u'Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, New York University School of Medicine']]
[u'What is the Truck Factor of popular GitHub applications? A first assessment', ['Guilherme Avelino', 'Marco Tulio Valente', 'Andre Hora'], u'2015-09-10', u'The Truck Factor designates the minimal number of developers that have to be hit by a truck (or quit) before a project is incapacitated. It can be seen as a measurement of the concentration of information in individual team members. We calculate the Truck Factor for 133 popular GitHub applications, in six languages. To infer the authors of a file we use the Degree-of-Authorship (DOA) metric, which is computed using version history data, and to estimate the Truck Factor, we use a greedy heuristic. Results show that most systems have a small truck factor (46% have Truck Factor=1 and 28% have Truck Factor=2).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1233/', ['Social Computing', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computer Science, Federal University of Minas Gerais', u'Department of Computer Science, Federal University of Piaui']]
[u'Inconsistencies among secondary sources of chukar partridge (Alectoris chukar) introductions to the United States', ['Michael P Moulton', 'Jr, Wendell P Cropper', 'Andrew J Broz'], u'2015-09-10', u'An important source of information concerning the fates of intentionally introduced exotic bird species has been collections of historical data that sometimes include species released, numbers released, locations of release, and establishment success. These data have been used to assess potential predictors of establishment success such as propagule pressure, site-level factors, and species characteristics. In order to better understand the limitations of such historical compilations, we compared data for the Chukar (Alectoris chukar) introductions to the USA from two often used compilations and from other sources associated with Chukar introduction programs. We found the major compilations of Long (1981) and Lever (1987) are inconsistent and likely to be incomplete, and inaccurate, in terms of the taxa introduced, the numbers introduced, and the fates of these introductions. Propagule pressure analyses have often assumed that every bird in every release must be summed to represent the propagule pressure necessary for establishment. We found, however, that large numbers of birds were released into states and counties with already established populations. Additionally, in numerous states very large numbers of Chukars were unsuccessfully released. We conclude that site-level factors were more important influences of establishment success than propagule pressure was.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1362/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation, University of Florida', u'School of Forest Resources and Conservation, University of Florida']]
[u'Collecting reliable clades using the Greedy Strict Consensus Merger', ['Markus Fleischauer', 'Sebastian Bocker'], u'2015-09-10', u'Supertree methods combine a set of phylogenetic trees into a single supertree. Similar to supermatrix methods, these methods provide a way to reconstruct larger parts of the Tree of Life, potentially evading the computational complexity of phylogenetic inference methods such as maximum likelihood. The supertree problem can be formalized in different ways, to cope with contradictory information in the input. Many supertree methods have been developed. Some of them solve NP-hard optimization problems like the well known Matrix Representation with Parsimony, others have polynomial worst-case running time but work in a greedy fashion (FlipCut). Both can profit from a set of clades that are already known to be part of the supertree. The Superfine approach shows how the Greedy Strict Consensus Merger (GSCM) can be used as preprocessing to find these clades. We introduce different scoring functions for the GSCM, a randomization, as well as a combination thereof to improve the GSCM to find more clades. This helps, in turn, to improve the resolution of the final supertree. We find this modifications to increase the number of true positive clades by 16% while decreasing the number of false positive clades by 3% compared to the currently used Overlap scoring.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1297/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms'], [u'Lehrstuhl f\xfcr Bioinformatik, Friedrich-Schiller Universit\xe4t Jena']]
[u'The mind-writing pupil: A human-computer interface based on decoding of covert attention through pupillometry', ['Sebastiaan Mathot', 'Jean-Baptiste Melmi', 'Lotje van der Linden', 'Stefan Van der Stigchel'], u'2015-09-10', u'We present a new human-computer interface that is based on decoding of attention through pupillometry. Our method builds on the recent finding that covert visual attention affects the pupillary light response: Your pupil constricts when you covertly (without looking at it) attend to a bright, compared to a dark, stimulus. In our method, participants covertly attend to one of several letters with oscillating brightness. Pupil size reflects the brightness of the selected letter, which allows us--with high accuracy and in real time--to determine which letter the participant intends to select. The performance of our method is comparable to the best covert-attention brain-computer interfaces to date, and has several advantages: no movement other than pupil-size change is required; no physical contact is required (i.e. no electrodes); it is easy to use; and it is reliable. Potential applications include: communication with totally locked-in patients, training of sustained attention, and ultra-secure password input.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1361/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive, CNRS / Aix-Marseille University', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, Helmholtz Institute, Utrecht University']]
[u'An evolving computational platform for biological mass spectrometry: Work-flows, statistics and Data Mining with MASSyPup64', ['Robert Winkler'], u'2015-09-09', u'In biological mass spectrometry, crude instrumental data need to be converted into meaningful theoretical models. Several data processing and data evaluation steps are required to come to the final results. These operations are often difficult to reproduce, because of too specific computing platforms. This effect, known as \u2019workflow decay\u2019, can be diminished by using a standardized informatic infrastructure. Thus, we compiled an integrated platform, which contains ready-to-use tools and workflows for mass spectrometry data analysis. Apart from general unit operations, such as peak picking and identification of proteins and metabolites, we put a strong emphasis on the statistical validation of results and Data Mining. MASSyPup64 includes e.g. the OpenMS/TOPPAS framework, the Trans-Proteomic-Pipeline programs, the ProteoWizard tools, X!Tandem, Comet and SpiderMass. The statistical computing language R is installed with packages for MS data analyses, such as XCMS/metaXCMS and MetabR. The R package Rattle provides a user-friendly access to multiple Data Mining methods. Further, we added the non-conventional spreadsheet program teapot for editing large data sets and a command line tool for transposing large matrices. Individual programs, console commands and modules can be integrated using the Workflow Management System (WMS) taverna. We explain the useful combination of the tools by practical examples: 1) A workflow for protein identification and validation, with subsequent Association Analysis of peptides, 2) Cluster analysis and Data Mining in targeted Metabolomics, and 3) Raw data processing, Data Mining and identification of metabolites in untargeted Metabolomics. Association Analyses reveal relationships between variables across different sample sets. We present its application for finding co-occurring peptides, which can be used for target proteomics, the discovery of alternative biomarkers and protein-protein interactions. Data Mining derived models displayed a higher robustness and accuracy for classifying sample groups in targeted Metabolomics than cluster analyses. Random Forest models do not only provide predictive models, which can be deployed for new data sets, but also the variable importance. We demonstrate that the later is especially useful for tracking down significant signals and affected pathways in untargeted Metabolomics. Thus, Random Forest modeling supports the unbiased search for relevant biological features in Metabolomics. Our results clearly manifest the importance of Data Mining methods to disclose non-obvious information in biological mass spectrometry . The application of a Workflow Management System and the integration of all required programs and data in a consistent platform makes the presented data analyses strategies reproducible for non-expert users. The simple remastering process and the Open Source licenses of MASSyPup64 (http://www. bioprocess.org/massypup/) enable the continuous improvement of the system.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1359/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biotechnology and Biochemistry, CINVESTAV Unidad Irapuato']]
[u'The development of Negative Self-Beliefs Inventory (NSBI): Cultural adaptation and psychometric validation', ['Xiaoqing Tang', 'Wenjie Duan', 'Ying Wang', 'Pengfei Guo'], u'2015-09-09', u'Social anxiety is an emotional disorder common to various populations around the world. The newly developed Self-Beliefs Related to Social Anxiety Scale (SBSA) aims to assess three kinds of self-beliefs through 15 items that include self-related cognitive factors that evidently result in social anxiety. This study explored the psychometric characteristics of SBSA among 978 Chinese. An eight-item Negative Self-beliefs Inventory (NSBI) was developed through qualitative and quantitative analyses. Exploratory factor analysis, confirmatory factor analysis, and multi-group confirmatory factor analysis suggested that NSBI contained clear, meaningful, stable, and invariant three-factor structure consistent with the original SBSA. Further analyses showed that the three subscales and the entire scale exhibited high internal consistency (0.779\u20130.837), good criterion validity, and good convergent and divergent validity (i.e., negative associations with flourishing and positive associations with anxiety, depression, and stress). These findings indicated that NSBI is reliable and valid for measuring negative self-beliefs in the Chinese population. Higher total score of NSBI indicates the more serious negative self-beliefs. Limitations of the present study and implications for research and practice were also discussed. Further studies are needed to evaluate the predictive ability, incremental validity, and potential role of NSBI in clinical and large-scale populations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1358/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Global Health', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Applied Social Sciences, City University of Hong Kong', u'Horizon Research Consultancy Group', u'Hospital (T. C. M) Affiliated to Sichuan Medical University']]
[u'Using experimental evolution and next-generation sequencing to teach bench and bioinformatic skills', ['Alexander S Mikheyev', 'Jigyasa Arora'], u'2015-09-09', u'Advances in sequencing technology have exponentially increased data-generating capabilities, and data analysis has now become the major hurdle in many research programs. As sequencing tools become more accessible and automated, experimental design and data analysis skills become the key factors in determining the success of a study. However, proper bioinformatic analysis also relies on a deep understanding of laboratory workflow, in order to prevent biases in the data. This is particularly true if commercial kits are used, as proprietary reagents frequently obfuscate underlying reactions and their conditions. Here we present a training module that seamlessly combines laboratory components (experimental evolution of T5 bacteriophage resistance by Escherichia coli, and library preparation), with bioinformatic analysis of the resulting data. Students conduct a simple genetic variant discovery experiment in the course of about a week. The module uses mature Illumina chemistry for both library preparation and sequencing, though it can be modified for use with any sequencing platform. Because most students do not use Linux, the bioinformatic pipeline is available inside a cross-platform virtual machine, simplifying software installation, and providing a non-threatening introduction to the command line. The analysis, which is made simpler by the fact that most resistance mutations occur in one gene, making them easier to find, emphasizes the potential pitfalls of using short-read data for mutational analysis, and explores biases inherent to the methodology. This module can fill an existing training gap in advanced undergraduate, or early graduate education, allowing student to experience first-hand design, execution, and analysis of next-generation sequencing experiments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1356/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Ecology and Evolution Unit, Okinawa Institute of Science and Technology Graduate University']]
[u'AMAS: a fast tool for alignment manipulation and computing of summary statistics', ['Marek L Borowiec'], u'2015-09-08', u'The amount of data used in phylogenetics has grown explosively in the recent years and many phylogenies are inferred with hundreds or even thousands of loci and many taxa. These modern phylogenomic studies often entail separate analyses of each of the loci in addition to multiple analyses of subsets of genes or concatenated sequences. Computationally efficient tools for handling and computing properties of thousands of single-locus or large concatenated alignments are needed. Here I present AMAS (Alignment Manipulation And Summary), a tool that can be used either as a stand-alone command-line utility or as a Python package. AMAS works on amino acid and nucleotide alignments and combines capabilities of sequence manipulation with a function that calculates basic statistics. The manipulation functions include conversions among popular formats, concatenation, extracting sites and splitting according to a pre-defined partitioning scheme, and creation of replicate data sets. The statistics calculated include the number of taxa, alignment length, total count of matrix cells, overall number of undetermined characters, percent of missing data, AT and GC contents (for DNA alignments), count and proportion of variable sites, count and proportion of parsimony informative sites, and counts of all characters relevant for a nucleotide or amino acid alphabet. AMAS is particularly suitable for very large alignments with hundreds of taxa and thousands of loci. It performs better at concatenation and summarizing alignments than other popular tools. AMAS is a Python 3 program that relies solely on Python\u2019s core modules. AMAS source code and manual can be downloaded from http://github.com/marekborowiec/AMAS/', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1355/', ['Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Entomology and Nematology, UC Davis']]
[u'Trade-off Service Portfolio Planning \u2013 A Case Study on Mining the Android App Market', ['Maleknaz Nayebi', 'Guenther Ruhe'], u'2015-09-08', u'Service portfolio planning is the process of designing collections of services and deciding on their provision. The problem is highly information intensive, and most of the information required is hard to gather. In this paper, we present a solution approach based on the paradigm of Analytical Open Innovation (AOI). Open innovation is a cheap and low risk problem solving approach which relies on knowledge exchange with outside of company as a competitive advantage. Different forms of open innovation; crowd source, open source and outsource; facilitate the provider and consumer interactions and brings higher customer value. In our proposed AOI approach, open innovation is utilized for elicitation of services from web data, crowdsourcing the service value from potential customers and for the estimation of service implementation effort. For service evaluation, we apply the Kano theory of product development and customer satisfaction. Based on that and as the result from an optimization process, resource-optimized service portfolios are created that constitute trade-offs in balancing between gained value and effort needed. As a proof of concept, the proposed approach is illustrated via a case study project for the composition of Over the Top TV (OTT) services. The atomic services from 241 qualified apps were analyzed from the android app market. We demonstrate that the proposed approach is able to generate optimized trade-off solutions, composing better apps at each capacity level and achieving better customer satisfaction .The level of improvement in customer satisfaction varies between 16.5% and 95.3%.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1354/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'SEDS lab, University of Calgary']]
[u'Estimating and comparing microbial diversity in the presence of sequencing errors', ['Chun-Huo Chiu', 'Anne Chao'], u'2015-09-08', u'Estimating and comparing microbial diversity are statistically challenging due to limited sampling and possible sequencing errors for low-frequency counts, producing spurious singletons. The inflated singleton count seriously affects statistical analysis and inferences about microbial diversity. Previous statistical approaches to tackle the sequencing errors generally require different parametric assumptions about the sampling model or about the functional form of frequency counts. Different parametric assumptions may lead to drastically different diversity estimates. We focus on nonparametric methods which are universally valid for all parametric assumptions and can be used to compare diversity across communities. We develop here for the first time a nonparametric estimator of the true singleton count to replace the spurious singleton count. Our estimator of the true singleton count is in terms of the frequency counts of doubletons, tripletons and quadrupletons. To quantify microbial diversity, we adopt the measure of Hill numbers (effective number of taxa) under a nonparametric framework. Hill numbers, parameterized by an order q that determines the measures\u2019 emphasis on rare or common species, include taxa richness (q=0), Shannon diversity (q=1), and Simpson diversity (q=2). Based on the estimated singleton count and the original non-singleton frequency counts, two statistical approaches are developed to compare microbial diversity for multiple communities. (1) A non-asymptotic approach based on standardizing sample size or sample completeness via seamless rarefaction and extrapolation sampling curves of Hill numbers. (2) An asymptotic approach based on a continuous diversity (Hill number) profile which depicts the estimated asymptotes of diversities as a function of order q. Replacing the spurious singleton count by our estimated count, we can greatly remove the positive biases associated with diversity estimates due to spurious singletons in the two approaches and make fair comparison across microbial communities, as illustrated in applying our method to analyze sequencing data from viral metagenomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1353/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Statistics'], [u'Institute of Statistics, National Tsing Hua University']]
[u'Invited presentations, junior research groups and research highlights at GCB 2015', ['Axel Mosig', 'Jorg Rahnenfuhrer', 'Martin Eisenacher', 'Sven Rahmann'], u'2015-09-07', u'There are several types of presentations at the German Conference on Bioinformatics (GCB): original research (proceedings track), highlights, posters, and, for the first time in 2015, junior research group presentations.\nThis document collects the abstracts of invited presentations, of the junior research groups and of research highlights from the past year that were presented at GCB 2015. The program committee accepted 8 out of 10 submitted highlight abstracts and 6 out of 8 submitted junior research group presentations.\nAs junior research group presentations are new to the conference, we would especially invite feedback about this new track, in addition to other feedback you may have about the conference.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1352/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'Bioinformatics, Department of Biophysics, Ruhr University Bochum', u'Department of Statistics, TU Dortmund University', u'Medical Proteome Center, Ruhr University Bochum', u'Genome Informatics, Institute of Human Genetics, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u"New specimen and revision of the late Jurassic teleosaurid 'Steneosaurus\u2019 megarhinus", ['Davide Foffa', 'Mark T Young', 'Stephen L Brusatte', 'Lorna Steel'], u'2015-09-07', u"Teleosaurids were a successful group of semi-aquatic crocodylomorphs that were an abundant part of coastal marine/lagoonal faunas during the Jurassic. Their fossil record suggests that the group declined in diversity and abundance during the Late Jurassic. 'Steneosaurus\u2019 megarhinus (Hulke, 1871) from the Kimmeridge Clay Formation is a little known gracile longirostrine species of teleosaurid from the Late Jurassic (late Kimmeridgian). The holotype, an incomplete snout NHMUK PV OR43086, was firstly described by Hulke in 1871. Since then only one other specimen, an almost complete skull from the slightly older Aulacostephanus eudoxus Sub-Boreal ammonite Zone of \u201cLa Crouzette\u201d, Francoul\xe8s (Quercy, France), has been referred to this species. Here, we describe, DORCM G.5067i-v, the anterior rostrum of a teleosaurid from the same horizon and locality as the holotype. We demonstrate that DORCM G.5067i-v is referable to Steneosaurus\u2019 megarhinus based on a unique combination of characters, which include: strongly ventrally deflected anterior margin of the premaxilla; five premaxillary alveoli, the caudal-most being considerably reduced in size; anterodorsally oriented external nares; conical teeth bearing carinae which are only visible on the apical third of the crown. Importantly, the tooth count, shape of external nares and strong premaxillary deflection distinguish Steneosaurus\u2019 megarhinus from all other Middle and Late Jurassic longirostrine teleosaurids. Some of these characteristics resemble those seen in pholidosaurids, suggesting some convergence between these clades.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1351/', ['Marine Biology', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'School of GeoSciences, University of Edinburgh', u'Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton', u'National Museums Scotland', u'Department of Earth Sciences, Natural History Museum']]
[u'Evidence of macrophagous teleosaurids in the Corallian Group (Oxfordian, Late Jurassic) of the UK', ['Davide Foffa', 'Mark T Young', 'Stephen L Brusatte'], u'2015-09-07', u"Teleosaurids were a semi-aquatic group of crocodylomorphs with a fossil record that spanned the Jurassic Period. Abundant specimens are known from Oxford Clay (OCF, Callovian to lower Oxfordian) and Kimmeridge Clay (KCF, Kimmeridgian to lower Tithonian) Formations of the UK, and contemporaneous deposits in northern France. Unfortunately, due to the paucity of material from the intermediate \u2018Corallian Gap\u2019(middle to upper Oxfordian), we lack an understanding of how and why teleosaurid taxic abundance and diversity declined from the OCF to the KCF. Our discovery of an incomplete teleosaurid lower jaw from the Corallian of Weymouth (Dorset, UK) begins to help rectify this. The vertically oriented dentition, blunt tooth apices, and intense enamel ornamentation that shifts apical to an anastomosed pattern, and deep reception pits on dentary unambiguously demonstrates the affinity of this specimen with a sub-clade of macrophagous/durophagous teleosaurids ('Steneosaurus' obtusidens + Machimosaurus>). The high symphyseal tooth count allows us to exclude the specimen from M. hugii and M. mosae, but in absence of more diagnostic material we cannot unambiguously assign the specimen to a more specific level. Nevertheless, this specimen represents the first UK mandibular material referable to Teleosauridae from this poorly known time-span.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1349/', ['Marine Biology', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'School of GeoSciences, University of Edinburgh', u'Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton', u'National Museums Scotland']]
[u'The phylogenetic implications of re-describing the English crocodyliform specimens referred to Pholidosaurus', ['Thomas J Smith', 'Mark T Young'], u'2015-09-07', u'Pholidosauridae was a clade of longirostrine crocodyliforms that radiated across Europe, Asia, Africa and the Americas between the Middle Jurassic to Late Cretaceous. The type genus of this clade, Pholidosaurus, is poorly understood and even the number of valid species referable is uncertain. There is considerable instability in this part of the crocodyliform tree, as previous phylogenetic analyses do not agree upon whether Pholidosauridae is monophyletic or not. Preliminary results based on a first-hand re-scoring of the type specimen of Pholidosaurus purbeckensis for different phylogenetic analyses (both in preparation modifications of published datasets) unfortunately does not resolve this issue. When P. purbeckensis is treated as separate OTU, a monophyletic Pholidosaurus is not recovered. The first matrix finds P. purbeckensis and P. schaumbergensis to be distantly related (i.e. a polyphyletic Pholidosaurus), whereas in the second matrix both Pholidosaurus species form a polytomy with Dyrosauridae and a large clade constituting most of Pholidosauridae (in this matrix the inclusion of P. purbeckensis greatly decreases the level of resolution). The on-going in-depth re-description and re-scoring of English Pholidosaurus specimens will help determine whether the genus is monophyletic. This further descriptive work will provide a platform from which the internal relationships of the Pholidosauridae can be investigated.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1348/', ['Marine Biology', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton', u'School of GeoSciences, University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Were the necks of Apatosaurus and Brontosaurus adapted for combat?', ['Michael P Taylor', 'Mathew J Wedel', 'Darren Naish', 'Brian Engh'], u'2015-09-07', u'The apatosaurine sauropods \u2014 Apatosaurus, Brontosaurus and possibly others \u2014 resemble their diplodocine relatives, but are generally more robust. Apatosaur necks are much thicker than in other sauropods: cervical ribs and their supports are uniquely robust, and the ribs are strongly displaced ventrally. The diapophyseal and parapophyseal rami therefore project ventrolaterally, so that the neck would have been subtriangular in cross-section, not tubular.\nWhy did apatosaurines evolve necks that were apomorphically expensive to build, maintain, and operate? While sexual selection is not a convincing explanation for the evolution of sauropod necks in general, several features of apatosaurine necks suggest adaptation for combat:\n1. Ventral displacement of cervical ribs improved the lever arms of the hypaxial muscles, strengthening ventral neck movements.\n2. Ventrolaterally directed parapophyseal rami were oriented to resist ventral impacts.\n3. The ventral trough between the cervical ribs provided soft-tissue protection for the trachea, oesophagus, and major blood vessels.\n4. The ventrolateral processes on the cervical ribs may have been bony clubs, bearing thickened pads of connective tissue or keratinous knobs or spikes.\nThese adaptations suggest a style of combat in which the neck itself was crashed down or sideways into the opponent, rather than giraffe-style combat in which the head is the weapon. The closest extant analogue may be the elephant seal Mirounga: males fight by crashing their necks and anterior thoraxes together. As with apatosaurs, their cervical vertebrae are more robust than in relatives, and their ventral processes more pronounced; but enormous soft-tissue padding makes the analogy very inexact.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1347/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol', u'College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Pacific and College of Podiatric Medicine, Western University of Health Sciences', u'National Oceanography Centre, University of Southampton', u'(No institutional affiliation), 1522 Charles Avenue']]
[u'An early origin and diversification of macrophagous metriorhynchid crocodylomorphs, with evidence for multiple instances of parallel evolution', ['Mark T Young', 'Lorna Steel', 'Davide Foffa', 'Stephen L Brusatte', 'James J N Kitson', 'Conrad P D T Gillett', 'Mark A Bell', 'Ronan Allain', 'Yves Lepage'], u'2015-09-05', u'Metriorhynchids were a widely distributed group of marine crocodylomorphs that thrived during the Middle Jurassic\u2013Early Cretaceous. Within this group there is a subclade, Geosaurini, that evolved craniodential characteristics indicative of macrophagy (feeding on large-bodied prey items). When this subclade evolved and began to diversify into the myriad of morphologically distinct lineages is still unclear. Previous phylogenetic analyses suggest this clade evolved during the Late Jurassic, and rapidly diversified into numerous different ecomorphotypes. It was hypothesized that this was in response to the absence of small and medium-sized pliosaurs after the Middle-Late Jurassic Boundary. However, re-examination of poorly preserved fossils from the Callovian of England and France casts doubt on this. Based on our comparative study of these fossils, and new phylogenetic analyses, we conclude that Geosaurini had evolved and diversified by the mid Callovian. Although comparatively rare in the Middle Jurassic, at least four morphofunctionally distinct lineages of macrophages had evolved. Moreover, based on maximum likelihood modelling analyses, numerous macrophagy-linked characters (e.g. contiguous tooth serrations, low tooth count) evolved independently in these different lineages. Thus, the characteristics that previously suggested a Late Jurassic origin of Geosaurini was due to long-branch attraction and incomplete sampling. That these different macrophagous lineages evolved distinct morphofunctional complexes and began niche partitioning early in their evolution, suggests that their diversification was driven by foraging specialisation. We hypothesise that this may be a common driver of rapid diversification in marine tetrapod evolution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1345/', ['Marine Biology', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'School of GeoSciences, University of Edinburgh', u'Ocean and Earth Science, University of Southampton', u'Department of Earth Sciences, Natural History Museum', u'National Museums Scotland', u'School of Biological, Biomedical and Environmental Sciences, University of Hull', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia', u'Department of Earth Sciences, University College London, University of London', u"Centre de Recherche sur la Pal\xe9obiodiversit\xe9 et les Pal\xe9oenvironnements, CNRS/MNHN/ Paris6-UPMC, Museum national d'Histoire naturelle", u'Sciences et G\xe9ologie Normandes']]
[u'Gastric Cancer Transcription Factors in Patient Reported Outcomes (GCTF-PRO) \u2013 Draft proposal', ['Sonia Lee'], u'2015-09-04', u'The GCTF-PRO seeks to examine the extent gastric cancer patients are tapping into new information particularly outside of conventional healthcare disclosures. Its significance is in assessing dimensions of QOL paradigms that frame statistical power using predictive methods. It seeks to embed evidence-based theories (perceptual and cognitive) to awareness levels in an attempt to bridge the biotechnological advances with prognostic/ diagnostic-related patient satisfactions. At present, it may complement existing GC QOL instruments and offer a novel approach on how cellular level prognoses could possibly correlate with QOL measures.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1344/', ['Evidence Based Medicine', 'Health Policy', 'Translational Medicine', 'Statistics', 'Palliative Care'], [u'University of Sydney']]
[u'Thermal summation model and instar determination of all developmental stages of necrophagous beetle, Sciodrepoides watsoni (Spence) (Coleoptera: Leiodidae: Cholevinae)', ['Pavel Jakubec'], u'2015-09-04', u'Necrophagous beetles are underrepresented in forensic entomology studies despite their undeniable utility for the field. In our article we would like to address this problem and provide information regarding developmental biology and instar determination of Sciodrepoides watsoni (Spence, 1813), which is very common species occurring across the Holarctic region. We collected adult specimens from several localities across the Czech Republic to establish a laboratory culture with constant temperature regime and long day photoperiod. These adults were divided between five treatments that differed only in temperature (15, 18, 21, 25 and 28\xb0C). Emerging larvae were separated and their individual development was photographically documented every day until adulthood. Parameters of thermal summation models and their standard errors were calculated for each developmental stage. We also propose head width as a new character for larval instar determination together with a new methodology for future studies of size based characters.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1343/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Ecology / Faculty of Environmental Sciences, Czech University of Life Sciences Prague']]
[u'Operationalizing Central Place Theory and Central Flow Theory with mobile phone data', ['Derek Doran', 'Andrew Fox'], u'2015-09-04', u'Central Place and Central Flow Theory are geographic principles explaining why and how cities develop across large regional spaces. Central Place Theory postulates that cities self-organize into a spatial hierarchy were small numbers of very large \u2018Central Places\u2019 support numerous surrounding and less developed \u2018Low Places\u2019, while \u2018Middle Places\u2019 develop at the periphery of where Central Places carry spatial influence. Central Flow Theory is a comple- mentary notion that explains the cooperative development of cities through joint information sharing. Both theories are often discussed, with multiple regional development and economic models built upon their tenents. However, it is very difficult to quantify the degree to which Central Place and Central Flow Theory explains the development and positions of cities in a region, particularly in developing countries where socioeconomic data is difficult to collect. To facilitate these measurements, this paper presents a way to operationalize Central Place and Central Flow Theory using mobile phone data collected across a region. It defines a set of mobile phone data attributes that are related to basic facets of the two theories, and demonstrates how their measurements speak to the degree to which the theories hold in the region the mobile phone data covers. The theory is then applied in a case study where promising locations for economic investment in a developing nation are identified.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1342/', ['Data Science', 'Network Science and Online Social Networks'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Kno.e.sis Research Center, Wright State University', u'Department of Industrial Engineering and Management Science, Northwestern University']]
[u'The first dromaeosaurid (Dinosauria: Theropoda) from the Early Cretaceous Bayan Gobi Formation of Nei Mongol, China', ['Michael Pittman', 'Rui Pei', 'Xing Xu'], u'2015-09-04', u'The first dromaeosaurid theropod from the Early Cretaceous Bayan Gobi Formation is identified based on an incompletely preserved partially-articulated left leg, increasing the known diversity of its understudied ecosystem. The leg belongs to specimen IVPP V22530 and includes a typical deinonychosaurian pedal phalanx II-2 with a distinct constriction between the enlarged proximal end and the distal condyle as well as a typical deinonychosaurian enlarged pedal phalanx II-3. It possesses a symmetric metatarsus and a slender and long MT V that together suggest it is a dromaeosaurid. Two anatomical traits suggest the leg is microraptorine-like, but a more precise taxonomic referral was not possible: metatarsals II, III and IV are closely appressed distally and the ventral margin of the medial ligament pit of phalanx II-2 is close to the centre of the rounded distal condyle. This taxonomic status invites future efforts to discover additional specimens at the study locality because - whether it is a microraptorine or a close relative - this animal is expected to make important contributions to our understanding of dromaeosaurid evolution and biology. IVPP V22530 also comprises of an isolated manual ungual, a proximal portion of a right dorsal rib and an indeterminate bone mass that includes a collection of ribs. However, these specimens cannot be confidently referred to Dromaeosauridae, although they may very well belong to the same individual from whom the left leg belongs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1340/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Vertebrate Palaeontology Laboratory, Department of Earth Sciences, The University of Hong Kong', u'Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origins, Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology & Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Metagenomic and satellite analyses of red snow in the Russian Arctic', ['Nao Hisakawa', 'Steven Quistad', 'Eric R Hester', 'Daria Martynova', 'Heather Maughan', 'Enric Sala', 'Maria Gavrilo', 'Forest Rohwer'], u'2015-09-04', u'Cryophilic algae thrive in liquid water within snow and ice in alpine and polar regions worldwide. Blooms of these algae lowers albedo (reflection of sunlight), thereby altering melting patterns (Kohshima et al. 1993; Lutz et al. 2014; Thomas & Duval 1995) . Here metagenomic DNA analysis and satellite imaging were used to investigate red snow in Franz Josef Land in the Russian Arctic. Franz Josef Land red snow metagenomes confirmed that the communities are composed of the autotroph Chlamydomonas nivalis that is supporting a complex viral and heterotrophic bacterial community. Comparisons with white snow communities from other sites suggest that snow and ice are initially colonized by fungal-dominated communities and then succeeded by the more complex C. nivalis-heterotroph red snow. Satellite image analysis showed that red snow covers up to 80% of the surface of snow and ice fields in Franz Josef Land and globally. Together these results show that C. nivalis supports a local food web that is on the rise as temperatures warm, with potential widespread impacts on alpine and polar environments worldwide.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1341/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University', u'Microbiology, Radboud University Nijmegen', u'White Sea Biological Station, Zoological Institute, Russian Academy of Sciences', u'National Park Russian Arctic', u'Ronin Institute', u'National Geographic Society']]
[u'Insight on the anatomy, systematic relationships, and age of the Early Cretaceous ankylopollexian dinosaur Dakotadon lakotaensis', ['Clint A Boyd', 'Darrin C Pagnac'], u'2015-08-31', u'Knowledge regarding the early evolution within the dinosaurian clade Ankylopollexia drastically increased over the past two decades, in part because of an increase in described taxa from the Early Cretaceous of North America. These advances motivated the recent completion of extensive preparation and conservation work on the holotype and only known specimen of Dakotadon lakotaensis, a basal ankylopollexian from the Lakota Formation of South Dakota. That specimen (SDSM 8656) preserves a partial skull, lower jaws, a single dorsal vertebra, and two caudal vertebrae. That new preparation work exposed several bones not included in the original description and revealed that other bones were previously misidentified. The presence of extensive deformation in areas of the skull is also noted that influenced inaccuracies in prior descriptions and reconstructions of this taxon. In addition to providing an extensive re-description of D. lakotaensis, this study reviews previously proposed diagnoses for this taxon, identifies two autapomorphies, and provides an extensive differential diagnosis. Dakotadon lakotaensis is distinct from the only other ankylopollexian taxon known from the Lakota Formation, Osmakasaurus depressus, in the presence of two prominent, anteroposteriorly oriented ridges on the ventral surfaces of the caudal vertebrae, the only overlapping material preserved between these taxa. The systematic relationships of D. lakotaensis are evaluated using both the parsimony and posterior probability optimality criteria, with both sets of analyses recovering D. lakotaensis as a non-hadrosauriform ankylopollexian that is more closely related to taxa from the Early Cretaceous (e.g., Iguanacolossus, Hippodraco, and Theiophytalia) than to more basally situated taxa from the Jurassic (e.g., Camptosaurus, Uteodon). This taxonomic work is supplemented by field work that relocated the type locality, confirming its provenance from unit L2 (lower Fuson Member equivalent) of the Lakota Formation. Those data, combined with recently revised ages for the members of the Lakota Formation based on charophyte and ostracod biostratigraphy, constrain the age of this taxon to the late Valanginian to early Barremian.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1135/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'North Dakota Geological Survey', u'Department of Geology and Geological Engineering, South Dakota School of Mines and Technology']]
[u'Using crocodilian tails as models for dinosaur tails', ['Heinrich Mallison', 'Michael Pittman', 'Daniela Schwarz'], u'2015-09-02', u'The tails of extant crocodilians are anatomically the closest approximation of the tails of non-avian dinosaurs, and therefore a good starting point for any reconstruction of non-avian dinosaur tail muscles. However, we here demonstrate some methodological problems using crocodile tails, firstly regarding the general reconstruction of tail mobility from osteology, secondly for the reconstruction of tail musculature for the quantification of muscle forces, especially the m. caudofemoralis longus, and thirdly with respect to the anatomical differences between crocodilians and non-avian dinosaurs, especially in relation to the reconstruction of m. caudofemoralis brevis. Our results show that, given the current limited knowledge of crocodilian tails, volumetric reconstructions should be created on the basis of more gross morphological data than is usually used, and that biomechanical studies should include sensitivity analysis with greater parameter ranges than often applied.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1339/', ['Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'FB 3, Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde - Leibniz Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity Research', u'Vertebrate Palaeontology Laboratory, Life and Planetary Evolution Research Group, Department of Earth Sciences, The University of Hong Kong', u'FB 1, Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde - Leibniz Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity Research']]
[u'The Cardiac Electrophysiology Web Lab', ['Jonathan Cooper', 'Martin Scharm', 'Gary R Mirams'], u'2015-09-02', u'Computational modelling of cardiac cellular electrophysiology has a long history, with many models now available for different species, cell types, and experimental preparations. This success brings with it a challenge: how do we assess and compare the underlying hypotheses and emergent behaviours, in order to choose a model as a suitable basis for a new study, or characterize how a particular model behaves in different scenarios? We have created an online resource for the characterization and comparison of electrophysiological cell models under a wide range of experimental scenarios. The details of the mathematical model (quantitative assumptions and hypotheses formulated as ordinary differential equations) are separated from the experimental protocol being simulated. Each model and protocol is then encoded in computer-readable formats. A simulation tool runs virtual experiments on models, and a website \u2013 https://chaste.cs.ox.ac.uk/FunctionalCuration \u2013 provides a friendly interface, allowing users to store and compare results. The system currently contains a sample of 36 models and 23 protocols, including current-voltage curve generation, action potential properties under steady pacing at different rates, restitution properties, block of particular channels, and hypo-/hyper-kalaemia. This resource is publicly available, open source, and free; and we invite the community to use it and become involved in future developments. Those interested in comparing competing hypotheses using models can make a more informed decision; those developing new models can upload them for easy evaluation under the existing protocols, and even add their own protocols.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1338/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Cardiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford', u'Department of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, Universit\xe4t Rostock']]
[u'Smart traps for automatic remote monitoring of Rhynchophorus ferrugineus (Coleoptera: Curculionidae)', ['Ilyas Potamitis', 'Iraklis Rigakis'], u'2015-09-02', u'This work describes a novel solution to remote R. ferrugineus monitoring. Classical, plastic RPW traps containing aggregation pheromones for RPW are modified to include an optical sensor that senses adult pests falling in the trap. The counts of the pests are accumulated through the day and the counts are transmitted via the mobile phone network straight to a smartphone/tablet or internet address. The device is small and is attached internally in the trap carrying all necessary electronic equipment to allow optical detection, counting and transmission of counts through GSM. Smart RPW traps are expected to reduce the cost of monitoring and allow for reliable decision making as the wireless transmission is instantaneous thus allows the creations of real-time infestation maps. Our device has been tested extensively in real field delivering excellent detection results. We did not observe a single case that a RPW was not detected while being inside the trap and our trap delivers nearly zero rate false alarms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1337/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioengineering', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Music Technology & Acoustics, Technological Educational Institute of Crete', u'Department of Electronics, Technological Educational Institute of Crete']]
[u'An optimization approach to detect differentially methylated regions from Whole Genome Bisulfite Sequencing data', ['Nina Hesse', 'Christopher Schroder', 'Sven Rahmann'], u'2015-09-02', u'Whole genome bisulfite sequencing (WGBS) is the current method of choice to obtain the methylation status of each single CpG dinucleotide in a genome. The typical analysis asks for regions that are differentially methylated (DMRs) between samples of two classes, such as different cell types. However, even with current low sequencing costs, many studies need to cope with few samples and medium coverage to stay within budget. We present a method to conservatively estimate the methylation difference between the two classes. Starting from a Bayesian paradigm, we formulate an optimization problem related to LASSO approaches. We present a dynamic programming approach to efficiently compute the optimal solution and its implementation diffmer. We discuss the dependency of the resulting DMRs on the free parameters of our approach and compare the results to those obtained by other DMR discovery tools (BSmooth and RADMeth). We showcase that our method discovers DMRs that are missed by the other tools.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1287/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Optimization Theory and Computation'], [u'Computer Science XI, TU Dortmund', u'Genome Informatics, Human Genetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'An examination of disparities in cancer incidence in Texas using Bayesian random coefficient models', ['Corey Sparks'], u'2015-08-31', u'Disparities in cancer risk exist between ethnic groups in the United States. These disparities often result from differential access to healthcare, differences in socioeconomic status and differential exposure to carcinogens. This study uses cancer incidence data from the population based Texas Cancer Registry to investigate the disparities in digestive and respiratory cancers from 2000 to 2008. A Bayesian hierarchical regression approach is used. All models are fit using the INLA method of Bayesian model estimation. Specifically, a spatially varying coefficient model of the disparity between Hispanic and Non-Hispanic incidence is used. Results suggest that a spatio-temporal heterogeneity model best accounts for the observed Hispanic disparity in cancer risk. Overall, there is a significant disadvantage for the Hispanic population of Texas with respect to both of these cancers, and this disparity varies significantly over space. The greatest disparities between Hispanics and Non-Hispanics in digestive and respiratory cancers occur in eastern Texas, with patterns emerging as early as 2000 and continuing until 2008.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/814/', ['Epidemiology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Demography, The University of Texas at San Antonio']]
[u'Universal Chemical Markup (UCM) - A new format for common chemical data', ['Jan Mokry', 'Miloslav Nic'], u'2015-08-30', u'Background: We wish to introduce a new chemical format called UCM (Universal Chemical Markup). The format is based on XML (Extensible Markup Language) and its first version focuses on recording chemical structures and their properties. Results: UCM currently supports structures containing isotopes, ions and various types of bonding including delocalized bonds. Properties can be expressed by combining UCM with UnitsML (Units Markup Language). Using UnitsML one defines quantities with scientific units, and then refers to them in UCM when recording property values. Users can also add literature references with BibTeXML (BibTeX Markup Language) and annotate the recorded data using plain text or XHTML (Extensible Hypertext Markup Language) descriptions. In contrast to presently available general-purpose chemical formats, UCM offers built-in validation, which combines both grammar and pattern-based XML schema languages. Thus, all recorded data can be precisely validated by UCM schemas in standard XML validators. Conclusions: We developed the structure for UCM from scratch on the basis of an analysis described in our previous article. Starting from scratch allowed us to integrate BibTeXML, UnitsML and XHTML as well as chemical line notations and identifiers into UCM. It also helped us to avoid unnecessary redundant parts and create the implementation that aims to minimize ambiguity and is designed to be easily extensible in the future.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1336/', ['Data Science', 'World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Inorganic Chemistry, University of Chemistry and Technology Prague', u'Department of Software Engineering, Czech Technical University in Prague']]
[u'Designing Universal Chemical Markup (UCM) through the reusable methodology based on analyzing existing related formats', ['Jan Mokry', 'Miloslav Nic'], u'2015-08-30', u'Background: In order to design concepts for a new general-purpose chemical format we analyzed the strengths and weaknesses of current formats for common chemical data. While the new format is discussed more in the next article, here we describe our software tools and two stage analysis procedure that supplied the necessary information for the development. The chemical formats analyzed in both stages were: CDX, CDXML, CML, CTfile and XDfile. In addition the following formats were included in the first stage only: CIF, InChI, NCBI ASN.1, NCBI XML, PDB, PDBx/mmCIF, PDBML, SMILES, SLN and Mol2. Results: A two stage analysis process devised for both XML (Extensible Markup Language) and non-XML formats enabled us to verify if and how potential advantages of XML are utilized in the widely used general-purpose chemical formats. In the first stage we accumulated information about analyzed formats and selected the formats with the most general-purpose chemical functionality for the second stage. During the second stage our set of software quality requirements was used to assess the benefits and issues of selected formats. Additionally, the detailed analysis of XML formats structure in the second stage helped us to identify concepts in those formats. Using these concepts we came up with the concise structure for a new chemical format, which is designed to provide precise built-in validation capabilities and aims to avoid the potential issues of analyzed formats. Conclusions: We believe our analysis methodology is potentially highly reusable and could be easily adapted even for domains outside the chemistry area. It is because the methodology and software tools will need only few changes, although analyzed formats and software quality requirements for a format will differ according to the given domain.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1335/', ['Data Science', 'World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Inorganic Chemistry, University of Chemistry and Technology Prague', u'Department of Software Engineering, Czech Technical University in Prague']]
[u'Assessing Indonesian manta and devil ray populations through historical landings and fishing community interviews', ['Sarah A Lewis', 'Naneng Setiasih', 'Fahmi,', 'Dharmadi,', "Mary P O'Malley", 'Stuart J Campbell', 'Muhammad Yusuf', 'Abraham B Sianipar'], u'2015-08-29', u'International concern is growing with regard to the sustainability of manta and devil ray (collectively mobulids) fisheries as demand for mobulid products has increased in international markets over the last decade. While Indonesia has been reported to be one of the worlds\u2019 top three catchers of mobulid rays, detailed information on these fisheries and the status of Indonesian mobulid populations are lacking. Through collection of historical and recent mobuild fisheries data from published and unpublished sources, this study aimed to identify trends in abundance of Indonesian manta and devil rays and explore socio-economic factors and incentives associated with mobulid fisheries. Comparison of catches from 2001-5 to the most recent data from 2013-14 revealed dramatic declines in mobulid landings over the study period of 64% at Cilacap, 75% at Lamakera, and 94% at Tanjung Luar. The largest declines were observed for Manta spp. and the two large devil rays, Mobula tarapacana and Mobula japanica. Anecdotal reports indicated that catches had declined substantially at three additional sites and local extirpations are strongly suspected to have occurred at three locations. A lack of data on the population ecology of Indonesia\u2019s mobulids makes it difficult to determine whether natural fluctuations may be playing a part in the declining catch rates. However, mobulid life history traits, including low reproductive rates and late age of sexual maturation, indicate that fishing pressure is likely the primary driver in these declines. Interviews in Lamakera, a community which depends on income from its targeted mobulid fishery, suggest that programs focused on education, training and infrastructure development to enable shifts to sustainable livelihood alternatives are likely to offer the most successful path to long-term conservation and management of manta and devil rays, while simultaneously yielding economic and social benefits to fishing communities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1334/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Manta Trust', u'Reef Check Foundation Indonesia', u'Research Center for Oceanography, Indonesian Institute of Sciences', u'Research Center for Fisheries Management and Conservation, Agency for Marine and Fisheries Research, Ministry of Marine Affairs and Fisheries', u'WildAid', u'Wildlife Conservation Society, Indonesia Program', u'WWF-Indonesia', u'Conservation International Indonesia']]
[u'A hidden scale dependency in conserving working woodlands', ['Eli Lazarus', 'David Schaible'], u'2015-08-29', u'Because plans for large-scale landscape preservation in the US do not rely exclusively on lands held in trust, conservation programs have a vested interest in forest stewardship by private landowners. Selective harvests for commercial sale are often highlighted as a financial incentive for owners of non-industrial "family forests" to sustainably maintain the working character of their acreage rather than subdivide it or convert it for development. However, the business costs inherent in even a small-scale commercial timber harvest typically mean that forest parcels smaller than approximately 80 acres are too small to support a financial return. Statistics for private forest ownership in the U.S. suggest this minimum scale makes commercial harvest incentives effectively inaccessible to more than 90% of forest owners. Rural landscape conservation and commercial timber harvests depend on the same economies of scale to be viable. Designs for regional-scale forest conservation need to account for non-industrial but nonetheless commercial economies of scale that set an inherent limit on financial incentives intended to foster stewardship activity among family-forest landowners.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1333/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Science Policy', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'School of Earth & Ocean Sciences, Cardiff University', u'Timberland Consultants']]
[u'Spintharus flavidus in the Caribbean \u2013 a 30 million year biogeographical history and radiation of a \u2018widespread species\u2019', ['Austin Dziki', 'Greta Binford', 'Jonathan A Coddington', 'Ingi Agnarsson'], u'2015-08-29', u'The Caribbean island biota is characterized by high levels of endemism, the result of an interplay between colonization opportunities on islands and effective oceanic barriers among them. A relatively small percentage of the biota is represented by \u2018widespread species\u2019, presumably taxa for which oceanic barriers are ineffective. Few studies have explored in detail the genetic structure of widespread Caribbean taxa. The cobweb spider Spintharus flavidus Hentz, 1850 (Theridiidae) is one of two described Spintharus species and is unique in being widely distributed from northern N. America to Brazil and throughout the Caribbean. As a taxonomic hypothesis, Spintharus \u201cflavidus\u201d predicts maintenance of gene flow among Caribbean islands, a prediction that seems contradicted by known S. flavidus biology, which suggests limited dispersal ability. As part of an extensive survey of Caribbean arachnids (project CarBio), we conducted the first molecular phylogenetic analysis of S. flavidus with the primary goal of testing the \u2018widespread species\u2019 hypothesis. Our results, while limited to three molecular loci, reject the hypothesis of a single widespread species. Instead this lineage seems to represent a radiation with at least 16 species in the Caribbean region. Nearly all are short range endemics with several distinct mainland groups and others being single island endemics. While limited taxon sampling, with a single specimen from S. America, constrains what we can infer about the biogeographical history of the lineage, clear patterns still emerge. Consistent with limited overwater dispersal, we find evidence for a single colonization of the Caribbean about 30 million years ago, coinciding with the timing of the GAARLandia landbridge hypothesis. In sum, S. \u201cflavidus\u201d  is not a single species capable of frequent overwater dispersal, but rather a 30 my old radiation of single island endemics that provides preliminary support for a complex and contested geological hypothesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1332/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Vermont', u'Department of Biology, Lewis and Clark College', u'Department of Entomology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution']]
[u'A comparison of two commercially available ELISA methods for the quantification of human plasma heat shock protein 70 during rest and exercise stress', ['Ben J Lee', 'Nursyuhada Mohd Sukri', 'Henry B Ogden', 'Christopher Vine', 'Charles D Thake', 'James E Turner', 'James LJ Bilzon'], u'2015-08-29', u"Background. This study compared resting and exercise heat/hypoxic-stress induced levels of plasma eHSP70 in humans using two commercially available ELISA kits. Methods. EDTA plasma samples were collected from 21 males during two separate investigations. Participants in Part A completed a 60 min treadmill run in the heat (HOT70; 33.0 \xb1 0.1 \xb0C, 28.7 \xb1 0.8%, n = 6) at 70% V\u0307O2max. Participants in Part B completed 60 minutes of cycling exercise at 50% V\u0307O2max in either hot (HOT50; 40.5\xb0C, 25.4 RH%, n = 7) or hypoxic (HYP50; FIO2 = 0.14, 21\xb0C, 35% RH, n = 8) conditions. Samples were collected prior to and immediately upon termination of exercise and analysed for eHSP70 using EKS-715 high sensitivity HSP70 ELISA, and new ENZ-KIT-101 AMP\u2019D\u2122 HSP70 high sensitivity ELISA. Results. ENZ-KIT was superior in detecting resting eHSP70 (1.54 \xb1 3.27 ng.mL-1; range 0.08 to 14.01 ng.mL-1), with concentrations obtained from 100% of samples compared to 19% with EKS-715 assay. The ENZ-KIT requires optimisation prior to running samples in order to ensure participants fall within the standard curve, a step not required with EKS-715. Using ENZ-KIT, a 1:4 dilution allowed for quantification of resting HSP70 in 26/32 samples, with a 1:8 (n = 3) and 1:16 (n = 3) dilution required to determine the remaining samples. After exercise eHSP70 was detected in 6/21 and 21/21 samples using EKS-715 and ENZ-KIT respectively. eHSP70 was increased from rest after HOT70 (p < 0.05), but not HOT50 (p > 0.05) or HYP50 (p > 0.05) when analysed using ENZ-KIT. Conclusion. It is recommended that future studies requiring the precise determination of resting plasma eHSP70 use the ENZ-KIT (i.e., HSP70 Amp'd\xaeELISA) instead of the EKS-715 assay, despite additional assay development time and cost required.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1120/', ['Biochemistry', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Department for Health, University of Bath', u'Department of Biomolecular and Sport Sciences, Coventry University']]
[u'Reliability and validity of neurobehavioral function on the Psychology Experimental Building Language test battery in young-adults', ['Brian J Piper', 'Shane T Mueller', 'Alexander R Geerken', 'Kyle L Dixon', 'Gregory Kroliczak', 'Reid HJ Olsen', 'Jeremy K Miller'], u'2015-08-29', u'Background. The Psychology Experiment Building Language (PEBL) software consists of over one-hundred computerized tests based on classic cognitive neuropsychology and behavioral neurology measures. Although the PEBL tests are becoming more widely utilized, there is currently very limited information about the psychometric properties of these measures. Methods. Study I examined inter-relationships among ten PEBL tests including indices of motor-function (Pursuit Rotor and Dexterity), attention (Test of Attentional Vigilance and Time-Wall), working memory (Digit Span Forward), and executive-function (PEBL Trail Making Test, Berg/Wisconsin Card Sorting Test, Iowa Gambling Test, and Mental Rotation) in a normative sample (N = 189, ages 18-22). Study II evaluated test-retest reliability with a two-week interest interval between administrations in a separate sample (N = 79, ages 18-22). Results. Moderate intra-test, but low inter-test, correlations were observed and ceiling/floor effects were uncommon. Sex differences were identified on the Pursuit Rotor (Cohen\u2019s d = 0.89) and Mental Rotation (d = 0.31) tests. The correlation between the test and retest was high for tests of motor learning (Pursuit Rotor time on target r = .86) and attention (Test of Attentional Vigilance response time r = .79), intermediate for memory (digit span r = .63) but lower for the executive function indices (Wisconsin/Berg Card Sorting Test perseverative errors = .45, Tower of London moves = .15). Significant practice effects were identified on several indices of executive function. Conclusions. These results are broadly supportive of the reliability and validity of individual PEBL tests in this sample. These findings indicate that the freely downloadable, open-source, PEBL battery http://pebl.sourceforge.net is a versatile research tool to study individual differences in neurocognitive performance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1331/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Psychology, Bowdoin College', u'Department of Cognitive and Learning Sciences, Michigan Technological University', u'Department of Psychology, Willamette University', u'Department of Psychology, University of New Mexico', u'Action and Cognition Laboratory, Department of Social Sciences, Institute of Psychology, Adam Mickiewicz University in Poznan', u'Department of Behavioral Neuroscience, Oregon Health Sciences University', u'Pharmacology, University of North Carolina at Chapel    Hill']]
[u'Evaluation of the validity of the Psychology Experiment Building Language tests of vigilance, auditory memory, and decision making', ['Brian Piper', 'Shane T Mueller', 'Sara Talebzadeh', 'Min Jung Ki'], u'2015-08-29', u'Background. The Psychology Experimental Building Language (PEBL) http://pebl.sourceforge.net/ test battery is a popular application for neurobehavioral investigations. This study evaluated the correspondence between the PEBL and the non-PEBL versions of four executive function tests. Methods. In one cohort, young-adults (N = 44) completed both the Conner\u2019s Continuous Performance Test (CCPT) and the PEBL CPT (PCPT) with the order counter-balanced. In a second cohort, participants (N = 47) completed a non-computerized (Wechsler) and a computerized (PEBL) Digit Span (WDS or PDS) both Forward and Backward. Participants also completed the Psychological Assessment Resources or the PEBL versions of the Iowa Gambling Task (PARIGT or PEBLIGT). Results. The between test correlations were moderately high (reaction time r = 0.78, omission errors r = 0.65, commission errors r = 0.66) on the CPT. DS Forward was significantly greater than DS Backward independent of the test modality. The total WDS score was moderately correlated with the PDS (r = 0.56). The PARIGT and the PEBLIGTs showed a very similar pattern for response times across blocks, development of preference for Advantageous over Disadvantageous Decks, and Deck selections. However, the amount of money earned (score \u2013 loan) was significantly higher in the PEBLIGT during the last Block. Conclusions. These findings are broadly supportive of the criterion validity of the PEBL measures of sustained attention, short-term memory, and decision making. Select differences between workalike versions of the same test highlight how detailed aspects of implementation may have more important consequences for computerized testing than has been previously acknowledged.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1330/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Albright College', u'Cognitive and Learning Sciences, Michigan Technological University', u'Department of Biology, Husson University', u'School of Pharmacy, Husson University']]
[u'Insights into iguanodontian dental architecture from an Early Cretaceous Chinese basal hadrosauriform maxilla (Ornithischia: Iguanodontia)', ['Michael Pittman', 'Xing Xu', 'Jason R Ali', 'Rui Pei', 'Waisum Ma', 'Jin Meng', 'Shundong Bi'], u'2015-08-26', u'Basal hadrosauriform iguanodontian dinosaurs have been invaluable towards understanding the evolution of the complex and highly efficient advanced hadrosauriform tooth battery dental system. Here we report a new basal hadrosauriform maxilla specimen - IVPP V22529 - from the Dashuiguo Formation of Maortu, Nei Mongol, China that preserves a corrugated middle ventrolateral margin that differs from the straight and undulating ventral margins found in most iguandontian and non-iguanodontian dinosaurs. The uniqueness of this ventrolateral margin relates to a new dental structure - cementum \u2018jackets\u2019 that wrap about the labial sides of the teeth. To our knowledge this is the first time that cementum has been described migrated onto the tooth crowns of iguandontians (and other dinosaurs), but this trait is common amongst mammals. This dental morphology - seen in a similar form in the basal hadrosauriform Equijubus \u2013 therefore broadens our knowledge of iguanodontian maxillary anatomy and shows that the basal hadrosauriform dental system was more morphologically complex than previously thought. IVPP V22529 resembles maxillae specimens of Probactrosaurus gobiensis, a contemporaneous taxon known from the same locality in North China, in sharing an inferred subtriangular shape, a relatively flat lateral surface bearing a low row of foramina as well as similar-looking teeth. However, the presence of a unique corrugated middle ventrolateral margin in IVPP V22529, a low row of foramina on its lateral surface that also open anteriorly and increase in size posteriorly as well as a prominent medial shelf suggests that this specimen does not belong to P. gobiensis. However, these differences could conceivably be related to ontogenetic and sexual variation, which have not been fully documented in P. gobiensis. More detailed comparisons of IVPP V22529 and Probactrosaurus are also hampered by the missing posterior portion of IVPP V22529 as well as the missing anterior ramii in Probactrosaurus maxillae specimens. It is clear though that IVPP V22529 is different from the more advanced Northern Chinese hadrosauriforms Bactrosaurus and Gilmoreosaurus. The latter lack well-developed maxillary grooves on their medial shelves, unlike IVPP V22529, but all three taxa possess less-developed ones on the medial surfaces of the anteromedial processes of the anterior ramii. Different to IVPP V22529, Gilmoreosaurus also has foramina that are more highly-positioned on the lateral surface of its maxilla as well as a row of larger and more circular \u2018special\u2019 foramina on its medial surface. Thus, at this time, IVPP V22529 is identified as a basal hadrosauriform and not as a new genus or as a new species of Probactrosaurus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1329/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Vertebrate Palaeontology Laboratory, Department of Earth Sciences, The University of Hong Kong', u'Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origins, Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Division of Paleontology, American Museum of Natural History', u'Department of Biology, Indiana University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'The experiences of HIV-positive and HIV-negative children after receiving disclosure of their own and their parents\u2019 illnesses, respectively', ['Grace Gachanja'], u'2015-08-26', u'The aim of this research brief is to describe a study that sought to understand the post-disclosure experiences of HIV-positive and negative children after they received disclosure of their own and their parents\u2019 illnesses, respectively. This is the first study from Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) that describes the post-disclosure experiences of HIV-positive and negative children in one study. Prior studies in SSA have mostly centered on the post-disclosure experiences of HIV-positive children after receiving disclosure of their own illnesses, or HIV-positive mothers\u2019 descriptions of the effect of maternal disclosure on their HIV-negative children.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1328/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'HIV', 'Pediatrics', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Health Sciences, Walden University']]
[u'Multidimensional biases, gaps and uncertainties in global plant occurrence information', ['Carsten Meyer', 'Patrick Weigelt', 'Holger Kreft'], u'2015-08-26', u'Plants are a hyperdiverse clade that plays a key role in maintaining ecological and evolutionary processes as well as human livelihoods. Glaring biases, gaps, and uncertainties in plant occurrence information remain a central problem in ecology and conservation, but these limitations have never been assessed globally. In this synthesis, we propose a conceptual framework for analyzing information biases, gaps and uncertainties along taxonomic, geographical, and temporal dimensions and apply it to all c. 370,000 species of land plants. To this end, we integrated 120 million point-occurrence records with independent databases on plant taxonomy, distributions, and conservation status. We find that different data limitations are prevalent in each dimension. Different information metrics are largely uncorrelated, and filtering out specific limitations would usually lead to extreme trade-offs for other information metrics. In light of these multidimensional data limitations, we critically discuss prospects for global plant ecological and biogeographical research, monitoring and conservation, and outline critical next steps towards more effective information usage and mobilization. We provide an empirical baseline for evaluating and improving global floristic knowledge and our conceptual framework can be applied to the study of other hyperdiverse clades.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1326/', ['Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Biodiversity, Macroecology and Conservation Biogeography Group, Faculty of Forest Sciences, University of G\xf6ttingen', u'Systemic Conservation Biology, University of G\xf6ttingen']]
[u"Marital disharmony in a couple's marriage and its psychological effects on their children during the HIV disclosure process in Kenya", ['Grace Gachanja'], u'2015-08-26', u'The aim of this research brief is to summarize a case report study that described an HIV-positive married couple\u2019s poor disclosure experience of their illnesses to all their children in the household. It is important to communicate this couple\u2019s HIV disclosure experience to healthcare professionals so that they are aware of the problems that can occur if married or cohabiting couples do not collaborate with each other during the disclosure process. The data presented in the case report study and in this research brief should be used to provide targeted counseling to HIV-positive parents or cohabiting couples considering disclosure to their children.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1327/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Health Sciences, Walden University']]
[u'Reverse transcriptase-related enzymes are associated with horizontal chromosome transfer in an asexual pathogen', ['Xiaoqiu Huang', 'Anindya Das', 'Binod B Sahu', 'Subodh K Srivastava', 'Leonor F Leandro', "Kerry O'Donnell", 'Madan K Bhattacharyya'], u'2015-08-25', u'Supernumerary chromosomes have been shown to transfer horizontally from one isolate to another. However, the mechanism by which horizontal chromosome transfer (HCT) occurs is unknown. In this study, we compared the genomes of 11 isolates comprising six Fusarium species that cause soybean sudden death syndrome (SDS) or bean root rot (BRR), and detected numerous instances of HCT in supernumerary chromosomes. We also identified a statistically significant number (21 standard deviations above the mean) of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the supernumerary chromosomes between isolates of the asexual pathogen F. virguliforme. Supernumerary chromosomes carried reverse transcriptase-related genes (RVT); the presence of long RVT open reading frames (ORFs) in the supernumerary chromosome was correlated with the presence of two or more chromosome copies with a significant number of SNPs between them. Our results suggest that supernumerary chromosomes transfer horizontally via an RNA intermediate. Understanding the mechanism by which HCT occurs will have a profound impact on understanding evolution and applying biotechnology as well as accepting HCT as a natural source of genetic variation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1324/', ['Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Mycology'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Plant Sciences Institute, Iowa State University', u'Department of Computer Science, Iowa State University', u'Department of Agronomy, Iowa State University', u'Crop, Soil and Environmental Sciences, University of Arkansas', u'Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology, Iowa State University', u'National Center for Agricultural Utilization Research, US Department of Agriculture, Agricultural Research Service']]
[u'Codes of conduct for Nursing students: bioethical commitment to higher education in Spain', ['Jacobo Cambil-Martin'], u'2015-08-25', u'Background: As a profession, Nursing has its own code of ethics and codes of conduct which establish personal and professional behavior expected on Nursing professionals and students to be competent in their practice, learning and development. The Nursing and Midwifery Council has a Code of Professional Conduct for students of Nursing and Midwife. Considering that the diversity of values is a fact in the university community, it is necessary to explore the validity and meaning to implement Codes of Professional Conduct for Nursing students in the teaching and learning process. Objective: To identify and assess codes of conduct aimed at Nursing students to understand the commitment to Bioethics training of higher education in Spain. Methods: A literature review was conducted. Main elements of ethical codes and the dimensions of the attitudinal assessment template for Nursing students in clinical practice with the code of conduct of the English Council were compared. Results: The literature review brings two articles in Spanish language and according to the selection criteria. The journal \u201cEtica de los cuidados\u201d -indexed in \u201cCuiden\u201d database- collects these studies reporting that both professionals and students know the Spanish Code of Ethics for Nursing and there is a need to establish a new teaching and learning framework in Bioethics; however, no specific articles provide knowledge about codes of conduct for Nursing students in Spain. Conclusion: In general, the standards of conduct for students of the Nursing and Midwifery Council are already implicit in the ethical rules, rights and duties of the Spanish code of professional ethics. So it is still necessary to consider the Code of Conduct of the Spanish Nursing Council and the White Paper of the Nursing Degree to understand the commitment to Bioethics training on Nursing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1325/', ['Nursing', 'Ethical Issues', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Nursing, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Granada']]
[u'First records on habitat use of semi-feral cattle in southern forests: topography reveals more than vegetation', ['Nicolas Seoane'], u'2015-08-24', u'While the presence of cattle in forests is quite common, how they use this habitat is often overlooked. When this is examined, most studies focus on measurements of the vegetation variables influencing habitat selection. This current report provides a suitable model to study habitat use by livestock in forested areas by means of GPS tracking on selected individuals. The model was applied to data from semi-feral cattle in order to obtain the first description of their habitat use in southern forests. Furthermore, the model accounted for individual variability, and hinted at population patterns of habitat use. The positions of 15 individual cows with GPS collars were recorded covering twelve months in a Nothofagus (southern beech) forest in Patagonia (Argentina). By projecting these GPS location data into a geographical information system (GIS), a resource selection probability function (RSPF) that considers topographic and vegetation variables was built. The habitat selection by semi-feral cattle in southern beech forests showed a large interindividual variability, but also some similar characteristics which enable a proper description of habitat-use patterns. It was found that habitat selection by cattle was mainly affected by topographic variables such as altitude and the combination of slope and aspect. In both cases the variables were selected below average relative to availability, suggesting a preferred habitat range. Livestock also tended to avoid areas of closed shrublands and showed a slight preference for meadows. Cattle give significant importance to topographic variables to define their habitat selection in this type of mountainous forests. This might be because of an ecological adaptation to the major features of these types of forests due to ferality. Furthermore, these results are the basis for management applications such as predictive maps of use by semi-feral livestock in forested landscapes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1321/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Laboratorio Ecotono, Universidad Nacional del Comahue, CONICET']]
[u'Hybrid HDFS: decreasing energy consumption and speeding up Hadoop using SSDs', ['Ivanilton Polato', 'Denilson Barbosa', 'Abram Hindle', 'Fabio Kon'], u'2015-08-24', u'Apache Hadoop has evolved significantly over the last years, with more than 60 releases bringing new features. By implementing the MapReduce programming paradigm and leveraging HDFS, its distributed file system, Hadoop has become a reliable and fault tolerant middleware for parallel and distributed computing over large datasets. Nevertheless, Hadoop may struggle under certain workloads, resulting in poor performance and high energy consumption. Users increasingly demand that high performance computing solutions being to address sustainability and limit power consumption. In this paper, we introduce HDFSH, a hybrid storage mechanism for HDFS, which uses a combination of Hard Disks and Solid-State Disks to achieve higher performance while saving power in Hadoop computations. HDFSH brings to middleware the best from HDs (affordable cost per GB and high storage capacity) and SSDs (high throughput and low energy consumption) in a configurable fashion, using dedicated storage zones for each storage device type. We implemented our mechanism as a block placement policy for HDFS, and assessed it over six recent releases of the Hadoop project, representing different designs of the Hadoop middleware. Results indicate that our approach increases overall job performance while decreasing the energy consumption under most hybrid configurations evaluated. Our results also showed that in many cases storing only part of the data in SSDs results in significant energy savings and execution speedups.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1320/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Distributed and Parallel Computing'], [u'Department of Computer Science, Federal University of Technology - Paran\xe1', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Alberta', u'Department of Computer Science, University of S\xe3o Paulo']]
[u'Stress-induced production of lipids in oleaginous microalgae for novel biofuel optimization', ['Eric M Teichner'], u'2015-08-24', u'Emerging concerns over energy security and accelerating climate change have led to a global interest in developing a sustainable biofuel. Recently, it was determined that algal biofuels can be possibly cultured in a wastewater medium due to high levels of nutrients nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium (NPK), reducing economic costs. Further efforts are needed in strain selection for cultivation in wastewater or inexpensive fertilizer. Common algal strains Nannochloropsis sp. and Chlorella sp. were studied to determine effects. Both strains were exposed to standard nutrients, which acted as controls, and high levels of NPK to simulate wastewater. The results revealed that NPK had a positive effect on turbidity and dissolved oxygen while decreasing the lipid productivities (measured via hexane solvent extraction) by an average of 36.5%. Specifically, Nannochloropsis sp. had overall higher values for all dependent variables. It is believed that under nutrient limiting conditions the cells deposited fatty acids in a triacylglycerol pathway. A follow-up experiment was performed using salinity as a novel method of decreasing biomass while maintaining lipid viability. Results revealed that freshwater algae can be cultivated in salinity levels between 10-15 ppt in order to increase lipid production. It is believed that while salinity osmotically interfered with the cell, lipid content increased, acting as a protective mechanism. Future research should focus on optimizing lipid production under stressed conditions using genetic manipulation of the TAG biosynthesis pathway.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1276/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Center for Science, Mathematics, and Technology, Mills E. Godwin High School']]
[u'ProCS15: A DFT-based chemical shift predictor for backbone and C\u03b2 atoms in proteins', ['Anders S Larsen', 'Lars A Bratholm', 'Anders S Christensen', 'Maher Jan Channir', 'Jan H. Jensen'], u'2015-08-24', u'We present ProCS15: A program that computes the isotropic chemical shielding values of backbone and C \u03b2 atoms given a protein structure in less than a second. ProCS15 is based on around 2.35 million OPBE/6-31G(d,p)//PM6 calculations on tripeptides and small structural models of hydrogen-bonding. The ProCS15-predicted chemical shielding values are compared to experimentally measured chemical shifts for Ubiquitin and the third IgG-binding domain of Protein G through linear regression and yield RMSD values of up to 2.2, 0.7, and 4.8 ppm for carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen atoms. These RMSD values are very similar to corresponding RMSD values computed using OPBE/6-31G(d,p) for the entire structure for each proteins. These maximum RMSD values can be reduced by using NMR-derived structural ensembles of Ubiquitin. For example, for the largest ensemble the largest RMSD values are 1.7, 0.5, and 3.5 ppm for carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen. The corresponding RMSD values predicted by several empirical chemical shift predictors range between 0.7 - 1.1, 0.2 - 0.4, and 1.8 - 2.8 ppm for carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen atoms, respectively.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1308/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of  Pharmacy, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of  Chemistry, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of  Chemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison']]
[u'A method for simultaneous measurement of soil bacterial abundances and community composition via 16S rRNA gene sequencing', ['Wenke Smets', 'Jonathan W Leff', 'Mark A Bradford', 'Rebecca L McCulley', 'Sarah Lebeer', 'Noah Fierer'], u'2015-08-21', u'Many recent studies rely on 16S rRNA-based sequencing approaches to analyze bacterial or archaeal communities found in soil and other environmental samples. While this approach is valuable for determining the relative abundances of different microbial taxa found in a given sample, it does not provide information on how the total abundances of targeted microbes differ across samples. Here we demonstrate how the simple addition of an internal standard at the DNA extraction step allows for the quantitative comparison of taxon abundances across samples. The reliability of this method was assessed in two ways. First, we spiked a dilution series of two different soils with internal standards to ascertain whether we could accurately quantify differences in cell abundances. We tested two different internal standards, adding DNA from Aliivibrio fischeri or Thermus thermophilus, bacterial taxa unlikely to be found in soil. Both standards allowed us to accurately quantify microbial abundances in soil as there was a strong positive correlation between total 16S rRNA gene estimations based on the recovery of sequences from these internal standards and the different starting amounts of soil extracted. We then tested whether we could use this approach to quantify differences in microbial abundances across a wide range of soil types. Microbial biomass of these samples was determined with standard methods: phospholipid fatty acid (PLFA) analysis and substrate induced respiration (SIR) analysis. The taxon abundances estimated with the internal standard sequencing approach were significantly correlated with the independent biomass measurements, and were in fact better correlated to SIR and PLFA estimates than either of these two biomass measurements were correlated with one another. Together, these results demonstrate that adding a DNA internal standard to soil or other environmental samples prior to DNA extraction is an effective method for comparing absolute bacterial cell abundances across samples. Given the ease of adding DNA internal standards to soil samples prior to high-throughput marker gene sequencing, absolute abundances and community composition can now be determined simultaneously and routinely.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1318/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Department of Bioscience Engineering, University of Antwerp', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado', u'Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences, University of Colorado', u'School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Yale University', u'Department of Plant and Soil Sciences, University of Kentucky']]
[u'Retrieving the Hemodynamic Response Function in resting state fMRI: methodology and applications', ['Guo-Rong Wu', 'Daniele Marinazzo'], u'2015-08-20', u'Retrieving the hemodynamic response function (HRF) in fMRI data is important for several reasons. Apart from its use as a physiological biomarker, HRF can act as a confounder in connectivity studies. In task-based fMRI is relatively straightforward to retrieve the HRF since its onset time is known. This is not the case for resting state acquisitions. We present a procedure to retrieve the hemodynamic response function from resting state (RS) fMRI data. The fundamentals of the procedure are further validated by a simulation and with ASL data. We then present the modifications to the shape of the HRF at rest when opening and closing the eyes using a simultaneous EEG-fMRI dataset. Finally, the HRF variability is further validated on a test-retest dataset.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1317/', ['Neuroscience', 'Computational Science'], [u'Data Analysis, Faculty of Psychology and Pedagogical Sciences, University of Ghent', u'Key Laboratory of Cognition and Personality, Southwest University']]
[u'Discrete time-cost tradeoff model for optimizing multi-mode construction project resource allocation', ['Shuangshuang Nie', 'Jihong Gao'], u'2015-08-20', u'The project scheduling and resource allocation problems have been studied using different optimization methods. The resource leveling problem was proposed to reduce the resource fluctuation and was always studied independently resource constraint problem. For example, resource-constrained project scheduling problem (RCPSP) was proposed to optimize scheduling under resource constraints. This research proposed a new model which integrates the resource leveling problem and resource-constrained time-cost tradeoff problem. The evolutionary multi-objective optimization technique, strength Pareto evolutionary approach II (SPEA II) was applied to calculate the Pareto front of time and cost. The resource leveling measured by the metric, resource release/re-hiring, was converted to resource cost. The analysis of the time complexity of the model showed that the runtime of the algorithm was polynomial times of the number of activities. The results of case testing showed that the model was reasonably accurate in comparison with a proposed baseline model.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1299/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Computer Aided Design'], [u'Tongji University']]
[u'Unit testing, model validation, and biological simulation', ['Gopal Sarma', 'Travis W Jacobs', 'Mark D Watts', 'Vahid Ghayoomi', 'Richard C Gerkin', 'Stephen D Larson'], u'2015-08-19', u'The growth of the software industry has gone hand in hand with the development of tools and cultural practices for ensuring the reliability of complex pieces of software. These tools and practices are now acknowledged to be essential to the management of modern software. As computational models and methods have become increasingly common in the biological sciences, it is important to examine how these practices can accelerate biological software development and improve research quality. In this article, we give a focused case study of our experience with the practices of unit testing and test-driven development in OpenWorm, an open-science project aimed at modeling Caenorhabditis elegans. We identify and discuss the challenges of incorporating test-driven development into a heterogeneous, data-driven project, as well as the role of model validation tests, a category of tests unique to software which expresses scientific models.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1315/', ['Computational Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Computational Science'], [u'School of Medicine, Emory University', u'OpenWorm.org', u'Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Texas at Austin', u'Laboratory of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Tehran', u'School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University']]
[u'A survey on tourist attitudes towards invertebrate conservation through entotourism activities in Sabah, Borneo of Malaysia', ['Ak Mohd Rafiq Ak Matusin', 'Fiffy Hanisdah Saikim', 'Norazah Mohd Suki', 'Mahadi Menakbar M. Dawood'], u'2015-08-18', u'The Tabin Wildlife Reserve (TWR), Lahad Datu, Sabah is a popular tourist spot in Malaysia. It is the largest wildlife reserve in Sabah, mainly focusing on endangered mammals and birds. Thus, in this research, it is proposed to include invertebrates\u2019 information in the current ecotourism activities in TWR. Implicitly, it could increase a sustainable invertebrate conservation. Invertebrates possess many benefits to humankind, namely waste recycling whereby, they cycle minerals and organic minerals for plants and animals. Thus, this investigation aimed to study the tourists\u2019 perception on including invertebrate information in the current TWR ecotourism activity. Hence, to collect data from tourists, pre-visit and post-visit questionnaire surveys were adopted as the methodological approach during preliminary entotourism activities. Two different conceptual framework sets (pre-visit and post-visit) were posited in this investigation. The collected data were analysed via Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) and Analysis of Moment Structure (AMOS) software program by adopting Structural Equation Modelling (SEM). SEM analyses revealed that both pre-visit and post-visit surveys have significant variance towards Ecotourism. This implied a good potential in including invertebrates in ecotourism activities especially in Sabah. The findings of this study are important to contribute to the literature of invertebrate conservation awareness in Sabah, since very limited researches were conducted specifically on entotourism field.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1313/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Entomology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Statistics'], [u'Universiti Malaysia Sabah, Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation', u'Universiti Malaysia Sabah, Labuan Faculty of International Finance', u'Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation, Universiti Malaysia Sabah']]
[u'Why do women choose to start, continue or stop breastfeeding? a qualitative phenomenological interpretive analysis', ['Jessica Ryan', 'Alyson Norman'], u'2015-08-17', u'The statistics from the National Health Service in the United Kingdom show that despite the current advice to breastfeed an infant exclusively for the first six months of life, less than 1% of mothers are actually doing this. Therefore, it is important it understand the barriers to breastfeeding experiences by women. The study aimed to investigate why some women choose to continue breastfeeding their infant, whilst other women do not. A qualitative semi-structured approach was employed recruiting eight participants interviewed one-to-one and three participants via one mini focus group. It was decided to use a qualitative approach in order to understand the experiences of women who have breastfed. Ethical approval was received from University of Plymouth, Faculty of Health and Human Sciences. Data was analysed using interpretive phenomenological analysis. The analysis identified four main themes centred on; social and cultural expectations of women, the impact of breastfeeding on maternal role, the perceived impact of breastfeeding on the mother\u2019s attachment to her infant, and finally, the information provision from health care professional involved throughout pregnancy and after. The study only employed 11 participants. It is hoped that this study can be extended in the future to better understand the experiences of a wider range of breastfeeding women. Increased support and resources are needed to support women through the early stages of breastfeeding. Women need more appropriate help and support from professionals to enable them to breast feed without undue pressure, particularly when breastfeeding becomes problematic. Future research should investigate when different forms of information provision should be provided.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1166/', ['Nursing', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', "Women's Health"], [u'School of Psychology, University of Plymouth']]
[u'Enterobacter cancerogenus produces short chain N-3-oxo-acylhomoserine lactones quorum sensing molecules', ['Kok-Gan Chan', 'Wen-Si Tan'], u'2015-08-17', u'Enterobacter cancerogenus strain M004 genome size is 5.67 Mb. Here, its luxI homologue, designated as ecnI which is ecnI gene (633 bp) was cloned and overexpressed. Its AHL synthesis activity was verified using the high-resolution liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry analysis revealed the production of N-(3-oxo-hexanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (3-oxo-C6-HSL) and N-(3-oxo-hexanoyl)-L-homoserine lactone (3-oxo-C8-HSL). The cloning and characterization of luxI homologue of E. cancerogenus strain M004 was firstly reported here.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1310/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'ISB (Genetics & Molecular Biology), Faculty of Science, University of Malaya, University of Malaya']]
[u'A minimal model for explaining the higher ATP production in the Warburg effect', ['Stefan Schuster', 'Daniel Boley', 'Philip Moller', 'Christoph Kaleta'], u'2015-08-16', u'For producing ATP, tumor cells rely on glycolysis leading to lactate to about the same extent as on respiration. Thus, they use a higher fraction of glycolysis than the corresponding healthy cells. This is known as the Warburg effect (named after German biochemist Otto Warburg) and also applies to striated muscle cells, activated lymphocytes and microglia, endothelial cells and several other cell types. This effect is paradoxical at first sight because the ATP yield of glycolysis is much lower than that of respiration. Although a straightforward explanation is that glycolysis allows a higher ATP production rate, the question arises why the cell does not re-allocate protein to the high-yield pathway of respiration. We tackle this question by a minimal model only including three combined reactions. We consider the case where the cell can allocate protein on several enzymes in a varying distribution and model this by a linear programming problem in which not only the rates but also the maximal velocities are variable. Depending on side conditions and on protein costs, this leads to pure respiration, pure glycolysis, and respirofermentation as a mixed flux distribution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1309/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Bioinformatics, Friedrich-Schiller-Universit\xe4t Jena', u'Computer Science & Engineering, University of Minnesota', u'Research Group Medical Systems Biology, Christian-Albrechts-Universit\xe4t Kiel']]
[u'Null Hypothesis Significance Testing: a short tutorial', ['Cyril R Pernet'], u'2015-08-14', u'Although thoroughly criticized, null hypothesis significance testing is the statistical method of choice in biological, biomedical and social sciences to investigate if an effect is likely. In this short tutorial, I first summarize the concepts behind the method while pointing to common interpretation errors. I then present the related concepts of confidence intervals, effect size, and Bayesian factor, and discuss what should be reported in which context. The goal is to clarify concepts, present statistical issues that researchers face using the NHST framework and highlight good practices.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1050/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Statistics'], [u'Centre for Clinical Brain Sciences, University of Edinburgh']]
[u'First experience with combined use of adaptive statistical iterative reconstruction and gemstone spectral imaging in spinal fusion CT images', ['Fengdan Wang', 'Yan Zhang', 'Zhengyu Jin', 'Richard Zwar'], u'2015-08-13', u'Objective. To explore whether the image noises and the metal artifacts could be further managed by the combined use of two technologies, the adaptive statistical iterative reconstruction (ASIR) and the monochromatic imaging generated by gemstone spectral imaging (GSI) dual-energy CT. Materials and Methods. Fifty-one patients with 318 spinal pedicle screws were prospectively scanned with dual energy CT by using fast kV-switching GSI between 80 and 140 kVp. The monochromatic GSI images at 110 keV were reconstructed either without ASIR or with ASIR of various levels (30%, 50%, 70% and 100%). For these five sets of images, both objective and subjective image quality assessments were performed to evaluate the image quality. Results. With objective image quality assessment, the metal artifacts (measured by an artifacts index) significantly decreased when increasing levels of ASIR was utilized (p < 0.001). Moreover, adding ASIR to GSI also decreased the image noise (p < 0.001) and improved the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR, p < 0.001). With subjective image quality analysis, the inter-reader agreements were good, with intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) of 0.89 to 0.99. Meanwhile, the visualization of the peri-implant soft tissue was improved at higher ASIR levels (p < 0.001). Conclusion. Combined use of ASIR and GSI is shown to decrease the image noise and improve the image quality in post-spinal fusion CT scans. Optimal results were achieved with ASIR levels of over 70%.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1306/', ['Orthopedics', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Radiology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital', u'Department of Radiology, Austin Health']]
[u'FSOL - a workflow for the detection of patient subgroups and affected molecular features in high-throughput omics data', ['Maike Ahrens', 'Michael Turewicz', 'Katrin Marcus', 'Helmut E. Meyer', 'Caroline May', 'Martin Eisenacher', 'Jorg Rahnenfuhrer'], u'2015-08-13', u'In personalized medicine, one major goal is the identification of yet unknown patient subgroups with specific gene or protein expression. Different subgroups can indicate different molecular subtypes of a disease. These subtypes might correlate with disease progression, prognosis or therapy response, and the subgroup-specific genes or proteins are potential drug targets. Using high-throughput molecular data, the aim is to characterize the patient subgroup by identifying both the set of samples that shows a distinct expression pattern as well as the set of features that are affected. We present the new workflow FSOL for the identification of patient subgroups from two sample comparisons (e.g. healthy vs. diseased). First, a pre-filtering based on the univariate score FisherSum (FS) is applied to assess subgroup-specific expression of the features. FS has been shown to outperform competing methods in several settings. Second, the selected features are compared regarding the samples that form the affected subgroup. This step uses the OrderedList (OL) method that was originally developed for the comparison of result lists from gene expression studies. We compare our workflow FSOL to a reference workflow based on biclustering using real world and simulated data. On a leukemia data set, a true biological subgroup can be detected with higher stability by FSOL. On simulated data, FSOL shows higher sensitivity and accuracy compared to biclustering especially for small to moderate differences. The exploratory approach FSOL may help in identifying yet unknown mechanisms in pathologic processes and may assist in the generation of new research hypotheses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1305/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Medizinisches Proteom-Center, Ruhr-Universit\xe4t Bochum', u'Department of Statistics, TU Dortmund University', u'Leibniz-Institut f\xfcr Analytische Wissenschaften - ISAS - e.V., Dortmund']]
[u'From predicting to analyzing HIV-1 resistance to broadly neutralizing antibodies', ['Anna Feldmann', 'Nico Pfeifer'], u'2015-08-13', u"Treatment with broadly neutralizing antibodies (bNAbs) has recently proven effective against HIV-1 infections in humanized mice, non-human primates, and humans. For optimal treatment, susceptibility of the patient's viral strains to a particular bNAb has to be ensured. Since no computational approaches are so far available, susceptibility can only be tested in expensive and time-consuming neutralization experiments. Here, we present well-performing computational models (AUC up to 0.84) that can predict HIV-1 resistance to bNAbs given the envelope sequence of the virus. Having learnt important binding sites of the bNAbs from the envelope sequence, the models are also biologically meaningful and useful for epitope recognition. Additional to the prediction result, we provide a motif logo that displays the contribution of the pivotal residues of the test sequence to the prediction. As our prediction models are based on non-linear kernels, we introduce a new visualization technique to improve the model interpretability. Moreover, we confirmed previous experimental findings that there is a trend towards antibody resistance for the subtype B population of the virus. While previous experiments considered rather small and selected cohorts, we were able to show a similar trend for the global HIV-1 population comprising all major subtypes by predicting the neutralization sensitivity for around 36,000 HIV-1 sequences - a scale-up which is very difficult to achieve in an experimental setting.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1304/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Virology', 'HIV', 'Statistics'], [u'Computational Biology and Applied Algorithmics Department, Max Planck Institute for Informatics', u'Saarland University, Saarbr\xfccken Graduate School of Computer Science']]
[u'Cluster analysis and visualization techniques for large datasets in complexome profiling', ['Heiko Giese', 'Jorg Ackermann', 'Ulrich Brandt', 'Ilka Wittig', 'Ina Koch'], u'2015-08-13', u'Dysfunctional protein complexes are often associated with diseases. To develop effective treatments it is essential to understand the composition, formation and functionality of protein complexes. Novel techniques like complexome profiling give an overview of possible protein-protein interactions in an entire sample. In this approach intact protein complexes are separated using blue-native electrophoresis. The migration patterns of thousands of proteins are then uncovered using quantitative mass spectrometry and compared to find co-migrating proteins. Here, we present the concepts of our visualization approach for large complexome profiling datasets using our software NOVA. In agreement with recent literature we show that the protein NDUFA4, a previously known subunit of complex I of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, is instead a subunit of complex IV.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1303/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Visual Analytics'], [u'Molecular Bioinformatics, Institute of Computer Science, Faculty of Computer Science and Mathematics, Johann Wolfgang Goethe Universit\xe4t Frankfurt am Main', u'Nijmegen Centre for Mitochondrial Disorders, Radboud University Nijmegen', u'Functional Proteomics, SFB815 core unit, Medical School, Johann Wolfgang Goethe Universit\xe4t Frankfurt am Main']]
[u'Motif clustering with implications for transcription factor interactions', ['Jan Grau', 'Ivo Grosse', 'Stefan Posch', 'Jens Keilwagen'], u'2015-08-13', u'High-throughput data, for instance ChIP-seq data, measure binding of transcription factors (TFs) or other proteins to DNA and have become a widespread data source for de-novo motif discovery. Often, several ChIP-seq data sets study the same TF under different conditions resulting in several, potentially redundant motifs, which demands for identification and clustering of similar motifs. Here, we propose a refined measure of motif similarity based on the correlation between score profiles on de Bruijn sequences. We demonstrate the utility of the proposed measure in benchmark studies on artificial motifs and motifs discovered from ENCODE ChIP-seq data. We use this measure to cluster motifs discovered from 757 different ENCODE ChIP-seq data sets for 166 TFs and RNA-polymerase II and III. Based on this clustering, we derive a TF interaction network that reflects many known TF-TF interactions, but also reveals novel putative interaction partners.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1302/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Computer Science, Martin Luther University Halle-Wittenberg', u'German Centre for Integrative Biodiversity Research (iDiv) Halle-Jena-Leipzig', u'Julius K\xfchn-Institut (JKI) - Federal Research Centre for Cultivated Plants']]
[u'Next generation cluster editing', ['Thomas Bellitto', 'Tobias Marschall', 'Alexander Schonhuth', 'Gunnar W Klau'], u'2015-08-13', u'Genomic structural variations play key roles in genetic diversity and disease. Despite recent advances in structural variation discovery, many variants are yet to be discovered. Midsize insertions and deletions pose particularly involved algorithmic challenges. The recent CLEVER algorithm addressed these challenges with a statistical model on cliques in a graph whose nodes are read alignments and whose edges arise from a statistical test on length and overlap of read alignments. However, the resulting read alignment clusters tend to be too small and are heavily overlapping, which leads to losses in recall performance rates. Here we present a model based on weighted cluster editing, which alleviates these issues: clusters are provably non-overlapping and tend to be larger. In order to render the inherent optimization problem tractable on all read alignments of a genome, we present a novel, principled heuristic, which runs in time linear in the length of the genome. The heuristic is based on an exact polynomial-time algorithm for weighted cluster editing in one-dimensional point graphs. We demonstrate that the new model improves recall rates achieved by CLEVER.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1301/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Data Science'], [u'Combinatorics and Algorithms Team, Laboratoire Bordelais de Recherche en Informatique', u'Max Planck Institute for Informatics', u'Life Sciences, Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica']]
[u'Simultaneous gene finding in multiple genomes', ['Stefanie Konig', 'Lars Romoth', 'Lizzy Gerischer', 'Mario Stanke'], u'2015-08-11', u'As whole genome sequencing is taking on ever-increasing dimensions, the new challenge is the accurate and consistent annotation of entire clades of genomes. We address this problem with a new approach to comparative gene finding that takes a multiple genome alignment of closely related species and simultaneously predicts the location and structure of protein-coding genes in all input genomes, thereby exploiting negative selection and sequence conservation. The model prefers potential gene structures in the different genomes that are in agreement with each other, or \u2013 if not \u2013 where the exon gains and losses are plausible given the species tree. We formulate the multi-species gene finding problem as a binary labeling problem on a graph. The resulting optimization problem is NP hard, but can be efficiently approximated using a subgradient-based dual decomposition approach. The proposed method was tested on a whole-genome alignment of 12 Drosophila species and its accuracy evaluated on D. melanogaster. The method is being implemented as an extension to the gene finder AUGUSTUS.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1296/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute for Mathematics and Computer Science, University of Greifswald']]
[u'Persistent and extreme outliers in causes of death by state, 1999-2013', ['Francis P Boscoe'], u'2015-08-11', u'In the United States, state-specific mortality rates that are high relative to national rates can result from legitimate reasons or from variability in coding practices. This paper identifies instances of state-specific mortality rates that were at least twice the national rate in each of three consecutive five-year periods (termed persistent outliers), along with rates that were at least five times the national rate in at least one five-year period (termed extreme outliers). The resulting set of 71 outliers, 12 of which appeared on both lists, illuminates mortality variations within the country, including some that are amenable to improvement either because they represent preventable causes of death or highlight weaknesses in coding techniques. Because the approach used here is based on relative rather than absolute mortality, it is not dominated by the most common causes of death such as heart disease and cancer.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1268/', ['Epidemiology'], [u'New York State Cancer Registry, New York State Department of Health']]
[u'Examining the role of red background in magnocellular contribution to face perception', ['Bhuvanesh Awasthi', 'Mark A Williams', 'Jason Friedman'], u'2015-08-11', u'This study examines the role of the magnocellular system in the early stages of face perception, in particular sex categorization. Utilizing the specific property of magnocellular suppression in red light, we investigated visually guided reaching to low and high spatial frequency hybrid faces against red and grey backgrounds. The arm movement curvature measure shows that reduced response of the magnocellular pathway interferes with the low spatial frequency component of face perception. This is the first definitive behavioral evidence for magnocellular contribution to face perception.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1295/', ['Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Centre for Cognition and Decision Making, Higher School of Economics', u'Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University', u'Department of Physical Therapy, Tel Aviv University', u'Sagol School of Neuroscience, Tel Aviv University']]
[u'From raw ion mobility measurements to disease classification: a comparison of analysis processes', ['Salome Horsch', 'Dominik Kopczynski', 'Jorg Ingo Baumbach', 'Jorg Rahnenfuhrer', 'Sven Rahmann'], u'2015-08-11', u'Ion mobility spectrometry (IMS) is a technology for the detection of volatile compounds in the air of exhaled breath that is increasingly used in medical applications. One major goal is to classify patients into disease groups, for example diseased versus healthy, from simple breath samples. Raw IMS measurements are data matrices in which peak regions representing the compounds have to be identified and quantified. A typical analysis process consists of pre-processing and peak detection in single experiments, peak clustering to obtain consensus peaks across several experiments, and classification of samples based on the resulting multivariate peak intensities. Recently several automated algorithms for peak detection and peak clustering have been introduced, in order to overcome the current need for human-based analysis that is slow, subjective and sometimes not reproducible. We present an unbiased comparison of a multitude of combinations of peak processing and multivariate classification algorithms on a disease dataset. The specific combination of the algorithms for the different analysis steps determines the classification accuracy, with the encouraging result that certain fully-automated combinations perform even better than current manual approaches.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1294/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Respiratory Medicine', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Statistics, TU Dortmund University', u'Bioinformatics, Computer Science XI, TU Dortmund University', u'Faculty of Applied Chemistry, Reutlingen University', u'Genome Informatics, Institute of Human Genetics, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Accessing and applying molecular history', ['Joshua G Stern', 'Eric A Gaucher'], u'2015-08-11', u'Studying the evolutionary history of life\u2019s molecules - DNA, RNA, and protein - reveals nature-based solutions to real-world problems. We discuss an approach to applied molecular evolution that is well-known within the field but may be unfamiliar to a wider audience. Using a case study at the intersection of molecular evolution and medicine, we introduce the fundamental concepts of orthology and paralogy. We also explain a practical entry point to molecular evolution named STORI: Selectable Taxon Ortholog Retrieval Iteratively. STORI is a machine learning algorithm designed to clear a bottleneck that researchers encounter when studying evolution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1293/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Computational Science'], [u'Machine Learning Research', u'School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology', u'School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Georgia Institute of Technology', u'General Genomics']]
[u'Measuring the well-being of health care professionals in the Punjab: a psychometric evaluation of the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being Scale in a Pakistani population', ['Ahmed Waqas', 'Waqas Ahmad', 'Mark Haddad', 'Frances Taggart', 'Zerwah Muhammad', 'Muhammad Hamza HB Bukhari', 'Shahzad Ahmed Sami', 'Sayyeda Mehak Batool', 'Fiza Najeeb', 'Ayesha Hanif', 'Zehra Ali Rizvi', 'Sumbul Ejaz'], u'2015-08-10', u'Background: There is growing awareness of the public health importance of the mental well-being of population in general. This study was carried out to examine the wellbeing of Pakistani healthcare professionals, and to evaluate the psychometric properties of Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being Scale in in this population. The well-being of health professionals is likely to influence their care delivery. Methods: A cross-sectional survey was carried out from June, 2013 to December, 2014 among 1271 Pakistani health personnel (HCPs) belonging to seven different cities of Punjab province, Pakistan, to examine the acceptability, internal consistency, test-retest reliability and the content and construct validity of the English version of the Warwick-Edinburgh Mental Well-being Scale in a Pakistani population sample. All data were analyzed in SPSS v.21. Results: Our analysis demonstrated a unidimensional construct, a high internal consistency (0.89) and test-retest reliability, good convergent validity and easy readability of WEMBS among Pakistani HCPs. The mean on WEMWBS score was 48.1 (9.4) which is lower than general population sample in other nations. Male healthcare professionals scored significantly higher on WEMWBS than their female counterparts (P < .05), and older respondents had higher scores. Conclusion: The WEMBS appears feasible and acceptable for use in the Pakistani healthcare professionals, and findings from this study indicate its validity and internal consistency. The well-being scores of the health professional respondents were lower than those identified in general population surveys in the UK.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1084/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry', u'Centre for Mental Health Research, School of Health Sciences, City University London', u'Statistics and Epidemiology Unit, Division of Health Sciences, University of Warwick Medical School']]
[u'A Socratic epistemology for verbal emotional intelligence', ['Abe Kazemzadeh', 'James Gibson', 'Panayiotis Georgiou', 'Sungbok Lee', 'Shrikanth Narayanan'], u'2015-08-10', u"We describe and experimentally validate a question-asking framework for machine-learned linguistic knowledge about human emotions. Using the Socratic method as a theoretical inspiration, we develop an experimental method and computational model for computers to learn subjective information about emotions by playing emotion twenty questions (EMO20Q), a game of twenty questions limited to words denoting emotions. Using human-human EMO20Q data we bootstrap a sequential Bayesian model that drives a generalized pushdown automaton-based dialog agent that further learns from 300 human-computer dialogs collected on Amazon Mechanical Turk. The human-human EMO20Q dialogs show the capability of humans to use a large, rich, subjective vocabulary of emotion words. Training on successive batches of human-computer EMO20Q dialogs shows that the automated agent is able to learn from subsequent human-computer interactions. Our results show that the training procedure enables the agent to learn a large set of emotions words. The fully trained agent successfully completes EMO20Q at 67% of human performance and 30% better than the bootstrapped agent. Even when the agent fails to guess the human opponent's emotion word in the EMO20Q game, the agent's behavior of searching for knowledge makes it appear human-like, which enables the agent maintain user engagement and learn new, out-of-vocabulary words. These results lead us to conclude that the question-asking methodology and its implementation as a sequential Bayes pushdown automaton are a successful model for the cognitive abilities involved in learning, retrieving, and using emotion words by an automated agent in a dialog setting.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1292/', ['Agents and Multi-Agent Systems', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Computational Linguistics', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Natural Language and Speech'], [u'Vixlet', u'Signal Analysis and Interpretation Laboratory, University of Southern California']]
[u'All the services large and micro: Revisiting industrial practices in services computing', ['Gerald Schermann', 'Jurgen Cito', 'Philipp Leitner'], u'2015-08-10', u'Services computing is both, an academic field of study looking back at close to 15 years of fundamental research, as well as a vibrant area of industrial software engineering. Industrial practice in this area is notorious for its ever-changing nature, with the state of the art changing almost on a yearly basis based on the ebb and flow of various hypes and trends. In this paper, we provide a look "across the wall" into industrial services computing. We conducted an empirical study based on the service ecosystem of 42 companies, and report, among other aspects, how service-to-service communication is implemented, how service discovery works in practice, what Quality-of-Service metrics practitioners are most interested in, and how services are deployed and hosted. We argue that not all assumptions that are typical in academic papers in the field are justified based on industrial practice, and conclude the paper with recommendations for future research that is more aligned with the services industry.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1291/', ['Distributed and Parallel Computing', 'World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Software evolution and architecture lab, University of Zurich']]
[u'Luminophonics experiment: A user study on visual sensory substitution device', ['Shern Shiou Tan', 'Tomas Maul', 'Neil Mennie'], u'2015-08-10', u'Loss of vision is a severe impairment to the dominant sensory system. It often has a catastrophic effect upon the sufferer, with knock-on effects to their standard of living, their ability to support themselves, and their care-givers lives. Research into visual impairments is multi-faceted, focusing on the causes of these debilitating conditions as well as attempting to alleviate the daily lives of affected individuals. One of the methods is through the usage of sensory substitution device. Our proposed system, Luminophonics, focuses on visual to auditory cross modalities information conversions. A visual to audio sensory substitution device a type of system that obtains a continual stream visual inputs which it converts into corresponding auditory soundscape. Ultimately, this device allows the visually impaired to visualize the surrounding environment by only listening to the generated soundscape. Even though there is a huge potential for this kind of devices, public usage is still minimal (Loomis, 2010). In order to promote the adoption from the visually impaired, the overall performance of these devices need to be improved in terms of soundscape interpretability, information preservation and listening comfort amongst other factors. Luminophonics has developed 3 type of prototypes, which we have used to explore different ideas pertaining to visual to audio sensory substitution. In addition to these, one of the prototypes has been converted to include depth information using time of flight camera. Previously, an automated measurement method is used to evaluate the performance of the 3 prototypes (Tan, 2013). The results of the measurement cover the effectiveness in terms of interpretability and information preservation. The main purpose of the experiment reported herein, was to test the prototypes on human subjects in order to gain greater insight on how they perform in real-life situations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1289/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computer Vision', 'Emerging Technologies', 'Multimedia', 'Visual Analytics'], [u'School of Computer Science, University of Nottingham', u'School of Psychology, University of Nottingham']]
[u'Stay-green traits of hybrids of maize (Zea mays L.) below and above ear during grain filling, and their association with grain yields in winter in subtropical foot plain of Nepalese Himalaya', ['Nav Raj Adhikari', 'Surya Kant Ghimire', 'Shrawan Kumar Sah', 'Keshab Babu Koirala'], u'2015-08-10', u'Introduction: Plant breeders are in search of traits for high grain yielding hybrids (GYHs), genotypes or populations in several crop species including maize. So, the research has been designed to examine a variety of SG traits during entire grain filling (GF) and their association to grain yields (GYs) among the fifteen newly bred single cross maize hybrids. Materials and methods: An RCBD trial of three replications was conducted planting seeds of the hybrids on October 3, 2012 at Rampur, Chitwan in the subtropical foot plain of Nepalese Himalaya. The sowing date of the trial was arranged to expose flowering and grain filling to natural winter and to represent the commercial hybrid maize production season in granary belt. Results and discussion: Although previous studies reported that leaves that stay green long have been found positively grain yield attributing; this study have depicted either long, or short stay-green (SG) are high grain yielding. Polynomial regression equations (PREs) obtained between GYs and numbers of green leaves below ear (BtmGrn) on 110, 125 and 140th day during GF of the FHs (fifteen hybrids) had coefficient of determination (r2) less than 18%. Although it is so, there is still two diagnostic association curves for high GYHs 8, 12, 11, 13, 5, 6 and 7 and medium to low GYHs 10, 1, 14, 2, 9, 15, 4 and 3 separately. After the date, high GYHs still displayed association curve between GYs and BtmGrn. In addition; PREs obtained between GYs and numbers of green leaves above ear (TopE0Grn) during entire GF of the FHs had r2 19 to 53%. Although it is so, there is still separate diagnostic association curve for high GYHs 8, 12, 11, 13, 5, 6 and 7; and medium to low GYHs 10, 1, 14, 2, 9, 15, 4 and 3. High GYHs and medium to low GYHs similarly displayed different association curve between GYs and numbers of total green leaves (GrnLves) on 110 to 155th day during entire GF and that had r2 equal to 21 to 53%. Although r2 of the PRE formed between GYs and days for net ear senescence duration (ErSenDur) has been found higher than PREs formed for days for ear senescence completion (ErSenCmp) and net ear senescence duration (ErSenDur); two meaningful separate quadratic curves can form between ErSenIni and GYs of high GYHs and medium to low GYHs. Curve formed between GYs and days for 0% green PP (plant population) (days for 100% PP senescence) of the FHs reflect strong positive correlation and almost straight line regression among fourteen hybrids except the highest GYH 8. Although the hybrid 8 lost SG almost earliest; but, its GY has been found highest. It means that the hybrid had highly photosynthetic leaves to contribute to high GY. But; fourteen high to low GYHs are inside the strong positive correlation pattern except GYH 8. So, number of days required by hybrids for 0% SG PP can be positive marker for selection of high GYHs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/920/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'Department of Plant Breeding, Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science (IAAS), Post-Graduate Campus, Tribhuvan University', u'Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'Department of Agronomy, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'Planning Division, Nepal Agriculture Research Council (NARC)']]
[u'Safe Hands: teaching innovation project to improve hand hygiene in health sciences.', ['Jacobo Cambil-Martin'], u'2015-08-10', u'Background: Since 2004, the World Alliance for Patient Safety brings proposing hand hygiene as the key measure of its international strategy in the fight against healthcare-associated infections. In Spain the Safe Hands Distinction of the Patient Safety Observatory recognizes the good practices on improving hand hygiene of the World Health Organization. Objectives: Apply the WHO multimodal strategy to improve hand hygiene at the Faculty of Health Sciences and maintain the culture of Patient Safety on hand hygiene by students and staff. Methods: A teaching innovation project called "Safe Hands" was developed in the Nursing Degree at the Faculty of Health Sciences of the University of Granada during the academic period 2013-2015. The tool "Guide to the Implementation of the WHO Multimodal Hand Hygiene Improvement Strategy" served to develop and plan the program to improve hand hygiene according to its five phases. In parallel, activities were implemented according to the three stages of the accreditation process "Safe Hands Distinction". Results: The Faculty of Health Sciences has become a dynamic secure environment that provides alcoholic gel for practice and training on hand hygiene, disseminates information and updated signage, reinforces the training of students and staff, and reinforces the quality assurance project. Study Limitations: It is necessary to complete the five years cycle of continuous improvement in quality of the WHO guide to establish an optimal strategy for improving hand hygiene. Conclusion: Safe Hands has launched the WHO multimodal strategy in an academic context. The Faculty of Health Sciences has got credited the Safe Hands Distinction, becoming the first Higher Education Center accredited in Spain to improve hand hygiene.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1290/', ['Nursing', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Nursing, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Granada']]
[u'Blood, sweat and tears: non-invasive vs. non-disruptive DNA sampling for experimental biology', ['Marie-Caroline Lefort', 'Stephane Boyer', 'Arijana Barun', 'Arsalan Emami Khoyi', 'Johnathon Ridden', 'Victoria R Smith', 'Rowan Sprague', 'Benjamin R Waterhouse', 'Robert H. Cruickshank'], u'2015-08-07', u'DNA data are becoming increasingly important in experimental biology. For example, it may be necessary to obtain DNA from an organism before using it in a bioassay or an experiment, to identify and distinguish between cryptic species, or when comparing different morphocryptic genotypes. Another example could be the assessment of relatedness between organisms prior to a behavioural study. In such cases, DNA must be obtained without affecting the fitness or behaviour of the subject being tested, as this could bias the results of the experiment. This points out the existence of a gap in the current molecular and experimental biology terminology, for which we propose the use of the term non-disruptive DNA sampling, specifically addressing behaviour and/or fitness, rather than simply physical integrity (invasiveness). We refer to these methods as \u201cnon-disruptive\u201d, and discuss when they are appropriate to use.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/655/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University', u'Department of Ecology, Faculty of Agricultural and Life Sciences, Lincoln University']]
[u'Screening of cytoprotectors against methotrexate-induced cytogenotoxicity from bioactive phytochemicals, by umu test combined with micronucleus Assay', ['Shaobin Gu', 'Ying Wu', 'Jianbo Yang'], u'2015-08-06', u'To develop new cytoprotectors to reduce the risk of second cancers caused by methotrexate-induced cytogenotoxicity, cytoprotective effects of ten kinds of phytochemicals and their combinations were evaluated by umu test combined with micronucleus assay. It is demonstrated that allicin, proanthocyanidins, polyphenols, eleutherosides and isoflavones owned higher antimutagenic activities than other phytochemicals. At the highest dose tested, the MTX genetoxicity was inhibited by 34.03%~67.12%. Of all the bioactive phytochemical combinations, the combination of grape seed proanthocyanidins and eleutherosides from siberian ginseng as well as green tea polyphenols and eleutherosides showed stronger antimutagenic effects, the inhibition rate of methotrexate-induced genotoxicity separately reached 74.7 \xb1 6.5 % and 71.8 \xb1 4.7%. The Kunming mice treated by MTX along with bioactive phytochemicals combinations showed significant reduction in micronucleus induction and sperm abnormality rate compared to MTX treated control groups without cytoprotector candidates (p<0.01). Moreover, obvious increases in thymus and spleen indices were observed in cytoprotector candidates treated groups. The results indicated that bioactive phytochemicals combinations owned potentials to be used as new cytoprotectors, besides umu test was the same effective assay to evaluate antimutagenic potential of phytochemicals as Ames test.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1286/', ['Biochemistry', 'Plant Science', 'Oncology'], [u'College of Food and Bioengineering, Henan University of Science and Technology', u'Rice Research Institute, Anhui Academy of Agricultural Science']]
[u'Estimation of methane emission factor for enteric fermentation of growing-finishing Hanwoo steers using the IPCC Tier 2 approach', ['Namchul Jo', 'Jongnam Kim', 'Seongwon Seo'], u'2015-08-06', u'Enteric methane (CH4) production by cattle is one of the major sources of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in the livestock sector. In order to develop a national GHG inventory and establish a mitigation strategy for GHG emissions from livestock production, accurate estimation of enteric CH4 production by cattle is required. In this regard, the Tier 2 method in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) guidelines is the most widely used. The objective of this study was to estimate and evaluate the CH4 emission factor (MEF; kg CH4/head/year) for enteric fermentation using the IPCC Tier 2 method in Hanwoo steers, a dominant beef production species in Korea raised in a unique feeding system (e.g., a duration of > 16 months in a feedlot). Methane emission factor for enteric fermentation was estimated using the IPCC Tier 2 method (T2) on Korea- and Hanwoo-specific data obtained from the literature. The MEF values were also estimated and compared using the IPCC Tier 1 (T1), the IPCC Tier 2 methodology with estimated gross energy GE intake based on actual dry matter intake (T2DMI), and the Japanese Tier 3 method (JT3). JT3 was chosen due to the similarity in the beef cattle production system between the two countries. Estimated MEF using T2 were 43.4, 33.9, and 36.2 kg CH4/head/year for the growing, finishing, and overall period, respectively. The overall MEF estimated using T2 was 23% lower than the estimate by T1 (47.0 kg CH4/head/year). There were significant differences in the estimated MEF for enteric fermentation of Hanwoo steers among the T2, T2DMI, and JT3 methods. JT3 estimated the highest values in all periods possibly due to overestimation of the conversion ratio of feed energy to CH4. No significant difference was found in the overall MEF of Hanwoo steers between T2 and T2DMI. However, T2DMI estimated 8% higher and 14% lower MEF than T2 for the growing and finishing period, respectively, mainly because the IPCC Tier 2 model significantly over-predicts the GE intake of Hanwoo steers at the high level of intake. The IPCC Tier 2 methodology is preferred to IPCC Tier 1 in estimating the MEF for enteric fermentation of Hanwoo steers, and the DMI model for Japanese cattle can be used to predict DMI of Hanwoo steers. In order to reduce the uncertainty of the estimates and search for a better mitigation strategy, however, development of a country-specific methodology and parameter estimates for enteric CH4 production of Hanwoo is required.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1285/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Animal Biosystem Sciences, Chungnam National University']]
[u'Nanopublication beyond the Sciences', ['Patrick Golden', 'Ryan Shaw'], u'2015-08-06', u'The information expressed in humanistic datasets is inextricably tied to a wider discursive environment that is irreducible to complete formal representation. Humanities scholars must wrestle with this fact when they attempt to publish or consume structured data. The practice of \u201cnanopublication\u201d, which originated in the e-science domain, offers a way to maintain the connection between formal representations of humanistic data and its discursive basis. In this paper we describe nanopublication, its potential applicability to the humanities, and our experience curating humanities nanopublications in the PeriodO period gazetteer.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1284/', ['Digital Libraries', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'School of Information and Library Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Monogenean anchor morphometry: systematic value, phylogenetic signal, and evolution', ['Tsung Fei Khang', 'Oi Yoon Michelle Soo', 'Wooi Boon Tan', 'Lee Hong Susan Lim'], u'2015-08-04', u"Anchors are important attachment appendages that prevent the physical dislodging of a monogenean parasite from fish host gills. Common descent and evolutionary processes have left their mark on anchor morphometry, in the form of patterns of shape and size variation useful for systematic and evolutionary studies. We used a geometric morphometric approach to explore anchor shape variation in 13 Ligophorus (Monogenea:Ancyrocephalidae) species infecting two marine mugilid (Teleostei: Mugilidae) fish hosts (Moolgarda buchanani and Liza subviridis) in the waters off West Peninsular Malaysia. Molecular sequence data from three nuclear markers: 28S rRNA, 18S rRNA and ITS1, were used to infer a maximum likelihood phylogeny to enable visualization of shape evolution in phylomorphospace. For inferring patterns of size evolution in the phylogeny, we used a size measure based on the first principal component of all pairwise Euclidean distances between landmarks. Cluster heat map and principal component analysis showed that anchor shape variation had sufficient systematic information for delimiting 12 of the 13 species. Adams' multivariate K test indicated significant correlation between anchor shape and phylogeny (p-value = 0.0001). We also discovered that characters based on anchor shaft shape, the length between inner and outer root tips and the length between inner root tip and the dent point were more phylogenetically informative than inner and outer lengths, as indicated by a maximum parsimony tree that was better resolved and had major clades congruent with those of the molecular phylogenetic tree. Continuous character mapping of size onto the inferred molecular phylogeny and Rayleigh\u2019s test for departure from directional uniformity in each species\u2019s landmark relative to the ancestor indicated that species infecting M. buchanani generally evolved larger and more robust anchors, while those infecting L. subviridis generally evolved smaller and more delicate anchors. Nevertheless, phylogenetic regression of anchor shape against body size and anchor size showed significant correlation (p-value = 0.02) between anchor shape and size, suggesting morphometric constraints in anchor evolution. Finally, morphological integration analysis revealed tight integration between the root and point compartments within anchors, confirming that the anchor functions as a single, fully integrated module. The present work is supported by the development of integrative analytical tools in the form of a new R package \u2013 monogeneaGM. By lowering barriers to data integration and analysis , we aim to encourage the scientific community to collect and contribute morphometric and genetic data from other Ligophorus species, which are essential for developing Ligophorus as a model system for understanding association between patterns of anchor shape size evolution and biodiversity in the Monogenea.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1283/', ['Biodiversity', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute of Mathematical Sciences, University of Malaya', u'Institute of Biological Sciences, University of Malaya', u'Centre for Tropical Biodiversity Research, University of Malaya']]
[u'Quantitative microbial ecology through stable isotope probing', ['Bruce A Hungate', 'Rebecca L Mau', 'Egbert Schwartz', 'J Gregory Caporaso', 'Paul Dijkstra', 'Natasja van Gestel', 'Benjamin J Koch', 'Cindy M Liu', 'Theresa A McHugh', 'Jane C Marks', 'Ember M Morrissey', 'Lance B Price'], u'2015-08-04', u'Bacteria grow and transform elements at different rates, yet quantifying this variation in the environment is difficult. Determining isotope enrichment with fine taxonomic resolution after exposure to isotope tracers could help, but there are few suitable techniques. We propose a modification to Stable Isotope Probing (SIP) that enables determining the isotopic composition of DNA from individual bacterial taxa after exposure to isotope tracers. In our modification, after isopycnic centrifugation, DNA is collected in multiple density fractions, and each fraction is sequenced separately. Taxon specific density curves are produced for labeled and non-labeled treatments, from which the shift in density for each individual taxon in response to isotope labeling is calculated. Expressing each taxon\u2019s density shift relative to that taxon\u2019s density measured without isotope enrichment accounts for the influence of nucleic acid composition on density and isolates the influence of isotope tracer assimilation. The shift in density translates quantitatively to isotopic enrichment. Because this revision to SIP allows quantitative measurements of isotope enrichment, we propose to call it quantitative Stable Isotope Probing (qSIP). We demonstrate qSIP using soil incubations, in which soil bacteria exhibited strong taxonomic variation in 18O and 13C composition after exposure to 18O-H2O or 13C-glucose. Addition of glucose increased assimilation of 18O into DNA from 18O-H2O. However, the increase in 18O assimilation was greater than expected based on utilization of glucose-derived carbon alone, because glucose addition indirectly stimulated bacteria to utilize other substrates for growth. This example illustrates the benefit of a quantitative approach to stable isotope probing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1282/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Center for Ecosystem Science and Society, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University', u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'School of Medicine, Department of Pathology, The Johns Hopkins University', u'Pathogen Genomics Division, Center for Microbiomics and Human Health, Translational Genomics Research Center', u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, Milken Institute School of Public Health, George Washington University', u'Pathogen Genomics Division, Center for Food Microbiology and Environmental Health, Translational Genomics Institute']]
[u'The tolerability of transcranial electrical stimulation used across extended periods in a naturalistic context by healthy individuals', ['Bhaskar Paneri', 'Niranjan Khadka', 'Vaishali Patel', 'Chris Thomas', 'William Tyler', 'Lucas C Parra', 'Marom Bikson'], u'2015-08-04', u'Transcranial electrical stimulation (tES) is one of the most widely implemented forms of non-invasive neuromodulation in basic and clinical neuroscience. Further, the use of tES by healthy populations for various purposes is growing widespread daily. The effects of tES protocols on the skin and other tissues has remained uncharacterized when used across extended periods of time by healthy individuals. Therefore, we examined the basic safety and tolerability profile of two distinct tES protocols used repeatedly across an extended period of time by healthy subjects and report our findings here for the first time. The safety and tolerability profile previously accumulated regarding extended use of tES in clinical populations is compelling and supports a low-risk or non-significant risk designation. In the present study, we tested the tolerability (safety) and compliance, compared to sham, of two common tES approaches having a current density < 2 mA/cm2; transcranial Direct Current Stimulation (tDCS) or transcranial Pulsed Current Stimulation (tPCS) used by healthy subjects three to five days (17 - 20 minutes per day) per week for up to six weeks in a naturalistic environment. In this study 100 healthy subjects were randomized to one of three treatment groups: tDCS (n = 33), tPCS (n = 30), or sham (n = 37) and blinded to the treatment condition. The tES and sham waveforms were delivered through self-adhering electrodes on the right lateral forehead and back of the neck. We conducted 1905 treatment sessions (636 sham, 623 tDCS, and 646 tPCS sessions) on study volunteers over a six-week period. There were no serious adverse events in any treatment condition. Common side effects were primarily restricted to influences upon the skin and included skin tingling, itching, and mild burning sensations. The incidence of these events in active tES treatment arms (tPCS, tDCS) was equivalent or significantly lower than their incidence in the sham treatment arm. Other adverse events had a rarity (< 5% incidence) that could not be statistically distinguished across the treatment groups. Some subjects withdrew early from the study for atypical headache (sham n = 2, tDCS n = 2, and tPCS n = 3), atypical discomfort (sham n = 0, tDCS n = 1, and tPCS n = 1), or atypical skin irritation (sham n = 2, tDCS n = 8, and tPCS n = 1). The compliance (elected sessions completed) for tPCS was significantly greater when compared to sham (p = 0.007). The present study represents the most comprehensive analysis of tES tolerability and safety in healthy subjects to date. Limited to the hardware, electrodes, and protocols tested here, we conclude that repeated use of limited output tES across extended periods, is well tolerated and poses no significant risks to healthy subjects, as previously observed in clinical studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1097/', ['Bioengineering', 'Neuroscience', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, The City College of New York', u'School of Biological and Health Systems Engineering, Arizona State University']]
[u'Combining environmental suitability and population abundances to evaluate the invasive potential of the tunicate Ciona intestinalis along the temperate South American coast', ['Stella Januario', 'Sergio A Estay', 'Fabio A Labra', 'Mauricio Lima'], u'2015-08-04', u'The tunicate Ciona intestinalis is an opportunistic invader with high potential for causing economic losses in aquaculture centers. Recent phylogenetic and population genetic analysis support the existence of a genetic complex described as C. intestinalis with two main dominant species (sp A and B) occurring worldwide. In Chile, the species has been observed around 30o S of latitude, but no official reports exist for the presence of C. intestinalis in southern regions (above 40o S), where most of the mollusk aquaculture centers are located. Here, we used occurrences from multiple invaded regions and extensive field sampling to model and validate the environmental conditions that allow the species to persist and to find the geographic areas with the most suitable environmental conditions for the spread of C. intestinalis in the Chilean coast. By studying the potential expansion of C. intestinalis southward in the Chilean Coast, we aimed to provide valuable information that might help the development of control plans before the species becomes a significant problem, especially above 40o S. Our results highlight that, by using portions of the habitat that are apparently distinguishable, the species seem to be not only genetically distinct, but ecologically distinct as well. The two regional models fitted for sp A and for sp B showed disagreement on which sections of Chilean coastline are considered more suitable for these species. While the model for sp A identifies moderately to highly suitable areas between 30o and 40o S, the model for sp B classifies the areas around 45o S as the most appropriate. Data from field sampling show a positive linear relationship between density of C. intestinalis and the index of suitability for sp A in aquaculture centers. Understanding the relation of the distinct species with the surrounding environment provided valuable insights about probable routes of dispersion in Chile, especially into those areas considered suitable for aquaculture activities but where the species has not yet been recorded. We discuss the implications of our findings as a useful tool to anticipate the invasion of such harmful invasive species with regard to the most relevant environmental variables.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1281/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biogeography', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Departamento Ciencias Biologicas y Quimicas - Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad San Sebasti\xe1n', u'Instituto Ciencias Ambientales y Evolutivas, Universidad Austral de Chile', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n e Innovaci\xf3n para el Cambio Clim\xe1tico - Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Santo Tomas', u'Center of Applied Ecology & Sustainability (CAPES), Facultad de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas, Pontificia Universidad Cat\xf3lica de Chile']]
[u'Predicting cortical bone adaptation to axial loading in the mouse tibia', ['Andre F Pereira', 'Behzad Javaheri', 'Andrew Pitsillides', 'Sandra Shefelbine'], u'2015-08-04', u"The development of predictive mathematical models can contribute to a deeper understanding of the specific stages of bone mechanobiology and the process by which bone adapts to mechanical forces. The objective of this work was to predict, with spatial accuracy, cortical bone adaptation to mechanical load, in order to better understand the mechanical cues that might be driving adaptation.\nThe axial tibial loading model was used to trigger cortical bone adaptation in C57BL/6 mice and provide relevant biological and biomechanical information. A method for mapping cortical thickness in the mouse tibia diaphysis was developed, allowing for a thorough spatial description of where bone adaptation occurs.\nPoroelastic finite-element (FE) models were used to determine the structural response of the tibia upon axial loading and interstitial fluid velocity as the mechanical stimulus. FE models were coupled with mechanobiological governing equations, which accounted for non-static loads and assumed that bone responds instantly to local mechanical cues in an on-off manner.\nThe presented formulation was able to simulate the areas of adaptation and accurately reproduce the distributions of cortical thickening observed in the experimental data with a statistically significant positive correlation (Kendall's tau rank coefficient \\(\\tau = 0.51\\), \\(p<0.001\\)).\nThis work demonstrates that computational models can spatially predict cortical bone mechanoadaptation to time variant stimulus. Such models could be used in the design of more efficient loading protocols and drugs therapies that target the relevant physiological mechanisms.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1140/', ['Bioengineering', 'Computational Biology', 'Orthopedics'], [u'Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College London', u'Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College', u'Department of Mechanical and Industrial Engineering, Northeastern University']]
[u'Is HTTP/2 more energy efficient than HTTP/1.1 for mobile users?', ['Shaiful Alam Chowdhury', 'Varun Sapra', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2015-08-04', u'Recent technological advancements have enabled mobile devices to provide mobile users with substantial capability and accessibility. Energy is evidently one of the most critical resources for such devices; in spite of the substantial gain in popularity of mobile devices, such as smartphones, their utility is severely constrained by battery life. Mobile users are very interested in accessing the Internet while it is one of the most expensive operations in terms of energy and cost. HTTP/2 has been proposed and accepted as the new standard for supporting the World Wide Web. HTTP/2 is expected to offer better performance, such as reduced page load time. Consequently, from the mobile users point of view, question arises: Does HTTP/2 offer improved energy consumption performance achieving longer battery life?In this paper, we compare the energy consumption of HTTP/2 with its predecessor (i.e., HTTP/1.1) using a variety of real world and synthetic test scenarios. We also investigate how Transport Layer Security (TLS) impacts the energy consumption of the mobile devices. Our study suggests that Round Trip Time (RTT) is one of the biggest factors in deciding how advantageous is HTTP/2 compared to HTTP/1.1. We conclude that for networks with higher RTTs, HTTP/2 has better energy consumption performance than HTTP/1.1.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1280/', ['Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing', 'World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'A template model for agent-based simulations', ['Nuno Fachada', 'Vitor V Lopes', 'Rui C Martins', 'Agostinho C Rosa'], u'2015-08-03', u'Agent-based modeling (ABM) is a bottom-up modeling approach, where each entity of the system being modeled is uniquely represented as an independent decision-making agent. ABMs are very sensitive to implementation details. Thus, it is very easy to inadvertently introduce changes which modify model dynamics. Such problems usually arise due to the lack of transparency in model descriptions, which constrains how models are assessed, implemented and replicated. In this paper, we present a template ABM which aims to serve as a basis for a series of investigations, including, but not limited to, conceptual model specification, statistical analysis of simulation output, model comparison and model parallelization. This paper focuses on the first two aspects (conceptual model specification and statistical analysis of simulation output), also providing a canonical implementation of the template ABM, such that it serves as a complete reference to the presented model. Additionally, this study is presented in a tutorial fashion, and can be used as a road map for simulation practitioners who wish to improve the way they communicate their ABMs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1278/', ['Agents and Multi-Agent Systems', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'Institute for Systems and Robotics, LARSyS, Instituto Superior T\xe9cnico, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Universidad de las Fuerzas Armadas-ESPE', u'Life and Health Sciences Research Institute, School of Health Sciences, University of Minho', u'Institute for Systems and Robotics - LARSyS, DBE- Instituto Superior T\xe9cnico, Universidade de Lisboa']]
[u'A research data sharing game', ['Tessa E Pronk', 'Paulien H Wiersma', 'Anne van Weerden', 'Feike Schieving'], u'2015-07-30', u'While reusing research data has evident benefits for the scientific community as a whole, decisions to archive and share these data are primarily made by individual researchers. In this paper we analyse, within a game theoretical framework, how sharing and reuse of research data affect individuals who share or do not share their datasets. We construct a model in which there is a cost associated with sharing datasets whereas reusing such sets implies a benefit. In our calculations conflicting interests appeared for researchers. Individual researchers are always better off not sharing and omitting the sharing cost, at the same time both sharing and not sharing researchers are better off if (almost) all researchers share. Namely, the more researchers share, the more benefit can be gained by the reuse of those datasets. We simulated several policy measures to increase benefits for researchers sharing or reusing datasets. Results point out that, although policies should be able to increase the rate of sharing researchers, and increased discoverability and dataset quality could partly compensate for costs, a better measure would be to directly lower the costs for sharing, or even turn it into a (citation-) benefit. Making data available would in that case become the most profitable, and therefore stable, strategy. This means researchers would willingly make their datasets available, and arguably in the best possible way to enable reuse, making other policy measures less pressing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/599/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Information and Marketing, Utrecht University Library', u'Ecology and Biodiversity, Utrecht University']]
[u'Doctoral dissertations in Chinese Interpreting Studies: A scientometric survey using topic modeling', ['Ziyun Xu'], u'2015-08-01', u'Despite being a relatively new discipline, Chinese Interpreting Studies (CIS) has witnessed tremendous growth in the number of publications and diversity of topics investigated over the past two decades. The number of doctoral dissertations produced has also increased rapidly since the late 1990s. As CIS continues to mature, it is important to evaluate its dominant topics, trends and institutions, as well as the career development of PhD graduates in the subject. In addition to traditional scientometric techniques, this study\u2019s empirical objectivity is heightened by its use of Probabilistic Topic Modeling (PTM), which uses Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) to analyze the topics covered in a near-exhaustive corpus of CIS dissertations. The analysis reveals that the topics of allocation of cognitive resources, deverbalization, and modeling the interpreting process attracted most attention from doctoral researchers. Additional analyses were used to track the research productivity of institutions and the career trajectories of PhD holders: one school was found to stand out, accounting for more than half of the total dissertations produced, and a PhD in CIS was found to be a highly useful asset for new professional interpreters.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1277/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Databases', 'Digital Libraries', 'Natural Language and Speech'], [u'Intercultural Studies Group, Universitat Rovira i Virgili']]
[u'Anvi\u2019o: An advanced analysis and visualization platform for \u2018omics data', ['A. Murat Eren', 'Ozcan C Esen', 'Christopher Quince', 'Joseph H Vineis', 'Mitchell L Sogin', 'Tom O Delmont'], u'2015-07-31', u'Comprehensive analysis of shotgun metagenomic assemblies have revolutionized molecular microbial ecology, but few microbiologists command the full suite of bioinformatics skills necessary to process, interact, organize and visualize overlapping DNA sequence contigs. Here we introduce anvi\u2019o, an advanced analysis and visualization platform for \u2018omics data, and its assembly-based metagenomic workflow. Anvi\u2019o\u2019s interactive interface facilitates the management of contigs and associated metadata for automatic or human-guided identification of genome bins, and their curation. Its extensible visualization approach distills multiple dimensions of information about each contig into a single, intuitive display, offering a dynamic and unified work environment for data exploration, manipulation and reporting. Beyond its easy-to-use interface, the advanced modular architecture of anvi\u2019o as a platform allows users with programming skills to implement and test novel ideas with minimal effort. To demonstrate anvi\u2019o\u2019s capabilities, we re-analyzed a metagenomic time-series data from an infant gut microbiome. Through the anvi\u2019o interface we identified near-complete draft genomes, and explored temporal genomic changes within the abundant microbial populations through de novo characterization of subtle nucleotide variations. We also used anvi\u2019o to re-analyze a collection of datasets from multiple investigators who studied microbial responses to the Deepwater Horizon oil spill. We linked metagenomic, metatranscriptomic, and single-cell genomic data from the water plume, and used the holistic perspective anvi\u2019o provides to identify the draft genome of a previously uncharacterized, active population of Oceanospirillales. We also linked environmental isolates with metagenomes recovered from an oil-contaminated beach, and identified 56 near-complete draft genomes including abundant oil degraders whose functional features suggested an oceanic origin.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1275/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Josephine Bay Paul Center, Marine Biological Laboratory', u'Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick']]
[u'Red-winged blackbird aggression but not nest defense success is predicted by exposure to brood parasitism by brown-headed cowbirds', ['Ken Yasukawa', 'Josie Lindsey-Robbins', 'Carol S. Henger', 'Mark E. Hauber'], u'2015-07-31', u'The brown-headed cowbird (Molothrus ater) is an obligate brood parasite known to use over 200 host species. The red-winged blackbird (Agelaius phoeniceus) is a commonly used accepter host that incubates cowbird eggs and cares for cowbird nestlings and fledglings. This host species, however, may reduce the risk of parasitism with a frontloaded antiparasite strategy in which it attacks parasites that approach active host nests. To test this frontloaded parasite-defense hypothesis (FPDH), we presented taxidermic models of a female northern cardinal (Cardinalis cardinalis), which represents no threat to redwings, a male cowbird, which cannot lay a parasitic egg, and a female cowbird, together with species- and sex-specific vocalization playbacks for 5 min. We conducted these presentations at 25 active redwing nests at Newark Road Prairie in south-central Rock County, Wisconsin, USA, where 18% of redwing nests were parasitized by cowbirds in 2015. As predicted by the FPDH, the female cowbird mount elicited the most aggressive responses and the female cardinal mount the least aggressive, as measured by number of times more than one male redwing responded and number of times the male host attacked the mount, and by Principal Component analyses yielding redwing aggressive behavior and intimidation scores. Contrary to the predictions of FPDH regarding the success of nest defense behaviors, male redwings responding at naturally parasitized nests were significantly more likely to attack the mount than males with nests that were not parasitized. We also compared our results with those of a study using the same methods and conducted in New York State where cowbird parasitism was rare. Wisconsin redwings were more aggressive toward the female cowbird mount than redwings in New York State. Red-winged blackbirds appear to frontload their antiparasite defenses and the aggressiveness, but the apparent success of those defenses depends on individual and population-level experience with parasites.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1274/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Biology, Beloit College', u'Department of Psychology, City University of New York, Graduate School and University Center', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Fordham University']]
[u'Trends in winter excess mortality in Mexico 1991 - 2008', ['Omar Gonzalez-Santiago', 'Evangelina Ramirez-Lara', 'Sandra L. Gracia-Vasquez', 'Isaias Balderas-Renteria'], u'2015-07-31', u'Objective: Analyze the mortality by all causes in M\xe9xico during the Winter season. Methods: We extracted and tabulated data on monthly all-cause mortality in the general population from 1991 to 2008 from database INEGI. Coefficients of seasonal variation in mortality were calculated. Results: An increase of 15 % in mortality for general population during Winter was observed during the studied period. The more susceptible age groups were old people and children with an increase of winter deaths of 19 % and 11 % respectively. Months with low levels of mortality were April, October and September for children, adolescents and old people respectively. Conclusions: In Mexico winter months shown the highest levels of mortality. The increase in mortality is similar to some Mediterranean countries. More susceptible age groups correspond to child and old people. Months with low levels of mortality are different for each age group. In M\xe9xico it is necessary identify the main factors that contribute to low mortality among different months according age groups.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1273/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Public Health'], [u'Facultad de Ciencias Qu\xedmicas, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Nuevo Le\xf3n']]
[u'Chinese Interpreting Studies: A data-driven analysis of a dynamic field of enquiry', ['Ziyun Xu', 'Leonid B Pekelis'], u'2015-07-30', u'Over the five decades since its beginnings, Chinese Interpreting Studies (CIS) has evolved into a dynamic field of academic enquiry with more than 3,500 scholars and 4,200 publications. Using quantitative and qualitative analysis, this scientometric study delves deep into CIS citation data to examine some of the noteworthy trends and patterns of behavior in the field: how can the field\u2019s progress be quantified by means of citation analysis? Do its authors tend repeatedly to cite \u2018classic\u2019 papers or are they more drawn to their colleagues\u2019 latest research? What different effects does the choice of empirical vs. theoretical research have on the use of citations in the various research brackets? The findings show that the field is steadily moving forward with new papers continuously being cited, although a number of influential papers stand out, having received a stream of citations in all the years examined. CIS scholars also have a tendency to cite much older English than Chinese publications across all document types, and empirical research has the greatest influence on the citation behavior of doctoral scholars, while theoretical studies have the largest impact on that of article authors. The goal of this study is to demonstrate the merits of blending quantitative and qualitative analyses to uncover hidden trends.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/952/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Intercultural Studies Group, Universitat Rovira i Virgili', u'Department of Statistics, Stanford University']]
[u'Pooling morphometric estimates: a statistical equivalence approach', ['Heath R Pardoe', 'Gary Cutter', 'Rachel A Alter', 'Rebecca Kucharsky Hiess', 'Mira Semmelroch', 'Donna Parker', 'Shawna Farquharson', 'Graeme Jackson', 'Ruben Kuzniecky'], u'2015-07-29', u'Changes in hardware or image processing settings are a common issue for large multi-center studies. In order to pool MRI data acquired under these changed conditions, it is necessary to demonstrate that the changes do not affect MRI-based measurements. In these circumstances classical inference testing is inappropriate because it is designed to detect differences, not prove similarity. We used a method known as statistical equivalence testing to address this limitation.\nEquivalence testing was carried out on three datasets: (i) cortical thickness and automated hippocampal volume estimates obtained from healthy individuals imaged using different multi-channel head coils; (ii) manual hippocampal volumetry obtained using two readers; and (iii) corpus callosum area estimates obtained using an automated method with manual cleanup carried out by two readers. Equivalence testing was carried out using the \u201ctwo one-sided tests\u201d (TOST) approach. Power analyses of the two one-sided tests were used to estimate sample sizes required for well-powered equivalence testing analyses. Mean and standard deviation estimates from the automated hippocampal volume dataset were used to carry out an example power analysis.\nCortical thickness values were found to be equivalent over 61% of the cortex when different head coils were used (q < 0.05, FDR correction). Automated hippocampal volume estimates obtained using the same two coils were statistically equivalent (TOST p = 4.28 \xd7 10-15). Manual hippocampal volume estimates obtained using two readers were not statistically equivalent (TOST p = 0.97). The use of different readers to carry out limited correction of automated corpus callosum segmentations yielded equivalent area estimates (TOST p = 1.28 \xd7 10-14). Power analysis of simulated and automated hippocampal volume data demonstrated that the equivalence margin affects the number of subjects required for well-powered equivalence tests.\nWe have presented a statistical method for determining if morphometric measures obtained under variable conditions can be pooled. The equivalence testing technique is applicable for analyses in which experimental conditions vary over the course of the study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/808/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Neurology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Statistics'], [u'Comprehensive Epilepsy Center, Department of Neurology, New York University School of Medicine', u'School of Public Health, University of Alabama', u'The Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health']]
[u'Modeling biological oscillations: integration of short reaction pauses into a stationary model of a negative feedback loop generates sustained long oscillations', ['Louis Yang', 'Ming Yang'], u'2015-07-29', u'Sustained oscillations are frequently observed in biological systems consisting of a negative feedback loop, but a mathematical model with two ordinary differential equations (ODE) that has a negative feedback loop structure fails to produce sustained oscillations. Only when a time delay is introduced into the system by expanding to a three-ODE model, transforming to a two-DDE model, or introducing a bistable trigger do stable oscillations present themselves. In this study, we propose another mechanism for producing sustained oscillations based on periodic reaction pauses of chemical reactions in a negative feedback system. We model the oscillatory system behavior by allowing the coefficients in the two-ODE model to be periodic functions of time \u2013 called pulsate functions \u2013 to account for reactions with go-stop pulses. We find that replacing coefficients in the two-ODE system with pulsate functions with micro-scale (several seconds) pauses can produce stable system-wide oscillations that have periods of approximately one to several hours long. We also compare our two-ODE and three-ODE models with the two-DDE, three-ODE, and three-DDE models without the pulsate functions. Our numerical experiments suggest that sustained long oscillations in biological systems with a negative feedback loop may be an intrinsic property arising from the slow diffusion-based pulsate behavior of biochemical reactions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1272/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania', u'Department of Botany, Oklahoma State University']]
[u'The apparent permeabilities of Caco-2 cells to marketed drugs: magnitude, and independence from both biophysical properties and endogenite similarities', ["Steve O'Hagan", 'Douglas B Kell'], u'2015-07-29', u'We bring together fifteen, nonredundant, tabulated collections (amounting to 696 separate measurements) of the apparent permeability (Papp) of Caco-2 cells to marketed drugs. While in some cases there are some significant interlaboratory disparities, most are quite minor. Most drugs are not especially permeable through Caco-2 cells, with the median Papp value being some 16.10-6 cm.s-1. This value is considerably lower than those (1310 and 230.10-6 cm.s-1) recently used in some recent simulations that purported to show that Papp values were too great to be transporter-mediated only. While these values are outliers, all values, and especially the comparatively low values normally observed, are entirely consistent with transporter-only mediated uptake, with no need to invoke phospholipid bilayer diffusion. The apparent permeability of Caco-2 cells to marketed drugs is poorly correlated with either simple biophysical properties, the extent of molecular similarity to endogenous metabolites (endogenites), or any specific substructural properties. In particular, the octanol:water partition coefficient, log P, shows negligible correlation with Caco-2 permeability. The data are best explained on the basis that most drugs enter (and exit) Caco-2 cells via a multiplicity of transporters of comparatively weak specificity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1271/', ['Computational Biology', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Chemistry & Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, The University of Manchester']]
[u'Large amplitude, short wave peristalsis and its implications for transport', ['Lindsay D Waldrop', 'Laura A. Miller'], u'2015-07-29', u'Valveless, tubular pumps are widespread in the animal kingdom, but the mechanism by which these pumps generate fluid flow are often in dispute. Where the pumping mechanism of many organs was once described as peristalsis, other mechanisms, such as dynamic suction pumping, have been suggested as possible alternative mechanisms. Peristalsis is often evaluated using criteria established in a technical definition for mechanical pumps, but this definition is based on a small-amplitude, long-wave approximation which biological pumps often violate. In this study, we use a direct numerical simulation of large-amplitude, short-wave peristalsis to investigate the relationships between fluid flow, compression frequency, compression wave speed, and tube occlusion. We also explore how the flows produced differ from the criteria outlined in the technical definition of peristalsis. We find that many of the technical criteria are violated by our model: fluid flow speeds produced by peristalsis are greater than the speeds of the compression wave; fluid flow is pulsatile; and flow speed have a non-linear relationship with compression frequency when compression wave speed is held constant. We suggest that the technical definition is inappropriate for evaluating peristalsis as a pumping mechanism for biological pumps because they too frequently violate the assumptions inherent in these criteria. Instead, we recommend that a simpler, more inclusive definition be used for assessing peristalsis as a pumping mechanism based on the presence of non-stationary compression sites that propagate uni-directionally along a tube without the need for a structurally fixed flow direction.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/906/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Department of Mathematics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Departemetns of Mathematics and Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u"Regulator's view on the scientific and regulatory challenges in new mobility outcomes & PROs", ['Gabriele Schlosser-Weber'], u'2015-07-28', u'The current focus from research based pharmaceutical companies is rather on cancer, not CNS. There are several reasons for this, e.g. problems with pre-clinical models, problems with dose-finding, large long-lasting trials, high failure rate, eventually leading to no return on investment. Are the regulatory requirements too high? Certainly not in Multiple Sclerosis, where we had 5 approvals since 2011 (Fingolimod, Fampridine, Teriflunomide, Alemtuzumab, Dimethylfumarate). In parallel we have worked on a new guideline for MS clinical trials, starting with a concept paper in 2011 followed by a large EMA workshop with all relevant stakeholders in 2013. The aim was "to make sure that in the revision of the MS guideline, the EMA can take the most up-to-date, state-of the-art scientific developments in MS into consideration, as well as the positions of experts in the field on the main topics in the guideline". The publication of the final guideline followed in Q2 in 2015 (http://www.ema.europa.eu/docs/en_GB/document_library/Scientific_guideline/2015/03/WC500185161.pdf). Among other things, we concluded that in the context of long-term outcomes the development of secondary progression is most important. Neither a relapse-based primary endpoint nor an MRI based endpoint can be accepted as a surrogate for disease progression. The EDSS as a rating scale for disability is widely used but has well-known deficiencies, e.g. considerable variability among assessors, that make the interpretation of clinical relevance difficult. However, MS specialists and regulators are familiar with EDSS and it is historically the most frequently used clinician assessment of neurologic impairment in MS clinical trials. Therefore it still will be important to use the EDSS, along with other candidate parameters, to assess true unremitting disability also in future trials to allow comparison among trials. Candidates for other parameters to assess disability are various short-time functional walking tests (e.g. T25-FW, 6MWT) and the MSWS12. Alternative tools to EDSS are currently being developed. Hereby it is important to apply functional assessments for measuring disability in MS. Specific recommendations are not given, but in general the requirements for new tools are that they are reliable, valid, sensitive to change over time, predictive value for disability progression, clinically meaningful and acceptable by the patient. EMA strongly encourages the development of new approaches and innovative methods. EMA intends to apply a flexible approach with regard to the acceptability of positive new endpoints, but a prerequisite is the scientific justification and adequate validation. Qualification procedures are recommended. Collaborative work will be necessary by academia, industry and regulators to develop criteria for appropriate use of PROs in studies, for instance to help assessing clinical relevance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1270/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Neurology'], [u'Clinical Assessor, Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices (Bundesinstitut f\xfcr Arzneimittel und Medizinprodukte, BfArM)']]
[u'Co-evolution hints at soil microbial biomass as the entity of soil fertility', ['Masato Oda', 'Yasukazu Hosen', 'Uchada Sukchan'], u'2015-07-28', u'Nitrogen (N) and Carbon (C) are popular indicators of soil fertility; however, they are not soil fertility itself. In fact, they may be seen as just two aspects of the one entity. Soil microbial biomass (SMB) is also one of soil fertility indicators; furthermore, recent study of co-evolution between plants and microorganisms raises an idea that SMB might be the entity of fertility. The correlation between SMB and crop yield has been found in some studies but not in others. Those studies were conducted from the standpoint of N stock balance; therefore, the correlation between soil properties before planting and plant yields were analyzed. Here, we show\u2014in our analysis of harvest-time soil properties and crop yields\u2014that SMB correlates more strongly than inorganic N, total N, or total C with average crop yield under a wide range of cultivation conditions. From the viewpoint of co-evolution, plant biomass is a part of the plant and soil microorganism system; therefore, increasing SMB will balance by increasing plant biomass. In addition, the SMB could increase independently from the plant growth by artificial organic matter input. This concept will break through the yield limitation of conventional farming.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1217/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Microbiology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Crop, Livestock & Environment Division, Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Science', u'Agricultural Production Science Research and Development Center']]
[u'Trail Making contributes to subjective judgment of visual efficiency in older adults', ['Annalisa Setti', 'James Loughman', 'George M Savva', 'RoseAnne Kenny'], u'2015-07-28', u'Introduction: The determinant factors that influence self-reported quality of vision have yet to be fully elucidated. This study evaluated a range of contextual information, established psychophysical tests, and in particular, a series of cognitive tests as potentially novel determinant factors. Materials & Methods: Community dwelling adults (aged 50+) recruited to Wave 1 of The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing, excluding those registered blind, participated in this study (N=5021). Self-reports of vision were analysed in relation to visual acuity and contrast sensitivity, ocular pathology, visual (Choice Response Time task; Trail Making Test) and global cognition. Contextual factors such as having visited an optometrist and wearing glasses were also considered. Ordinal logistic regression was used to determine univariate and multivariate associations. Results and Discussion: Poor Trail Making Test performance (Odds ratio, OR= 1.36), visual acuity (OR =1.72) and ocular pathology (OR=2.25) were determinant factors for poor versus excellent vision in self-reports. Education, wealth, age, depressive symptoms and general cognitive fitness also contributed to determining self-reported vision. Conclusions: Trail Making Test contribution to self-reports may capture higher level visual processing and should be considered when using self-reports to assess vision and its role in cognitive and functional health.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/738/', ['Epidemiology', 'Ophthalmology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Applied Psychology, University College Cork', u'The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing (TILDA), Trinity College Dublin', u'Optometry Department, College of Sciences and Health, Dublin Institute of Technology', u'African Vision Research Institute, Faculty of Sciences and Health, University of KwaZulu Natal', u"Mercer's Institute for Successful Ageing, St. James Hospital"]]
[u'A survey of HK, HPt, and RR domains and their organization in two-component systems and phosphorelays proteins of organisms with fully sequenced genomes', ['Baldiri Salvado', 'Ester Vilaprinyo', 'Albert Sorribas', 'Rui Alves'], u'2015-07-28', u'Two Component Systems and Phosphorelays (TCS/PR) are environmental signal transduction cascades in prokaryotes and, less frequently, in eukaryotes. The internal domain organization of proteins and the topology of TCS/PR cascades play an important role in shaping the responses of the circuits. It is thus important to maintain updated censuses of TCS/PR proteins in order to identify the various topologies used by nature and enable a systematic study of the dynamics associated with those topologies. To create such a census, we analyzed the proteomes of 7609 organisms from all domains of life with fully sequenced and annotated genomes. To begin, we survey each proteome searching for proteins containing domains that are associated with internal signal transmission within TCS/PR: Histidine Kinase (HK), Response Regulator (RR) and Histidine Phosphotranfer (HPt) domains, and analyze how these domains are arranged in the individual proteins. Then, we find all types of operon organization and calculate how much more likely are proteins that contain TCS/PR domains to be coded by neighboring genes than one would expect from the genome background of each organism. Finally, we analyze if the fusion of domains into single TCS/PR proteins is more frequently observed than one might expect from the background of each proteome. We find 50 alternative ways in which the HK, HPt, and RR domains are observed to organize into single proteins. In prokaryotes, TCS/PR coding genes tend to be clustered in operons. 90% of all proteins identified in this study contain just one of the three domains, while 8% of the remaining proteins combine one copy of an HK, a RR, and/or an HPt domain. In eukaryotes, 25% of all TCS/PR proteins have more than one domain. These results might have implications for how signals are internally transmitted within TCS/PR cascades. These implications could explain the selection of the various designs in alternative circumstances.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1267/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Departament de Cienci\xe8s M\xe8diques B\xe0siques, Universitat de Lleida', u'Departament de Cienci\xe8s M\xe8diques B\xe0siques, Universitat de Lleida - IRBLleida', u'Departament de Cienci\xe8s M\xe8diques B\xe0siques, Universitat de Lleida']]
[u'What do programmers know about the energy consumption of software?', ['Candy Pang', 'Abram Hindle', 'Bram Adams', 'Ahmed E Hassan'], u'2015-07-27', u'Traditionally, programmers have received a wide range of training on programming languages and methodologies, but rarely about software energy consumption. Yet, the popularity of mobile devices and cloud computing require increased awareness about software energy consumption. On a mobile device, computation is often limited by the battery life. Under the demands of cloud computing, data centers struggle to reduce energy consumption through vir- tualization and data center infrastructure management (DCIM) systems. Efficient energy consumption of software is increasingly becoming an important non-functional requirement for programmers. However, are programmers knowledgeable enough about software energy consumption? Do programmers base their implementation decision on popular beliefs? In this article, we survey over 100 programmers for their knowledge of software energy con- sumption. We find that programmers have limited knowledge about energy efficiency, lack the knowledge about the best practice to reduce energy consumption of software, and are often unsure about how software consumes energy. Education about the importance of energy effective software will benefit the programmers. Our results highlight the need for training about energy consumption and efficiency.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/886/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta', u'D\xe9partement de G\xe9nie Informatique et G\xe9nie Logiciel, \xc9cole Polytechnique de Montr\xe9al', u"School of Computing, Queen's University"]]
[u'Superchords: decoding EEG signals in the millisecond range', ['Rogerio Normand', 'Hugo Alexandre Ferreira'], u'2015-07-26', u'Electroencephalography (EEG) signals\u2019 interpretation is based on waveform analysis, where meaningful information should emerge from a plethora of data. Nonetheless, the continuous increase in computational power and the development of new data processing algorithms in the recent years have put into reach the possibility of analyzing raw EEG signals. Bearing that motivation, the authors propose a new approach using raw data EEG signals and deep learning neural networks, for the classification of motor activities (executed and imagery). The hypothesis to be presented here is: each instantaneous measurement of the raw signal of all EEG channels (superchord) is unique per motor activity regardless the moment of measurement. This study has confirmed the hypothesis (results with accuracy over 80%, mean for 109 subjects), reinforcing the need of further research for the understanding of mental processes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1265/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Neuroscience', 'Neurology'], [u'Faculty of Sciences, University of Lisbon, Institute of Biophysics and Biomedical Engineering']]
[u'Age, growth, and recruitment patterns of juvenile ladyfish (Elops sp) from the east coast of Florida (USA)', ['Juan C Levesque'], u'2015-07-26', u'Ladyfish (Elops sp) are a common and economically valuable coastal nearshore species found along coastal beaches, bays, and estuaries of the southeastern United States, and subtropical and tropical regions worldwide. Previously, ladyfish were a substantial bycatch in Florida\u2019s commercial fisheries, but changes in regulations significantly reduced commercial landings. Today, ladyfish are still taken in commercial fisheries in Florida, but many are also taken by recreational anglers. Life-history information and research interest in ladyfish is almost non-existent, especially information on age and growth. Thus, the overarching purpose of this study was to expand our understanding of ladyfish age and growth characteristics. The specific objectives were to describe, for the first time, age, growth, and recruitment patterns of juvenile ladyfish from the east coast of Florida (USA). In the Indian River Lagoon (IRL), annual monthly length-frequency distributions were confounded because a few small individuals recruited throughout the year; monthly length-frequency data generally demonstrated a cyclical pattern. The smallest were collected in September and the largest in May. Post-hoc analysis showed no significant difference in length between August and May, or among the other months. In Volusia County (VC), annual monthly length-frequency distribution demonstrated growth generally occurred from late-winter and spring to summer. The smallest ladyfish were collected in February and the largest in August. On average, the absolute growth rate in the IRL was 36.3 mm in 60 days or 0.605 mm day-1. Cohort-specific daily growth rates, elevations, and coincidentals were similar among sampling years. Cohort-specific growth rates ranged from 1.807 in 1993 to 1.811 mm day-1 in 1994. Overall, growth was best (i.e., goodness of fit) described by exponential regression. On average, the absolute growth rate in VC was 28 mm in 150 days or 0.1866 mm day-1. Cohort-specific daily growth rates were significantly different among sampling years; however, the elevations and coincidentals were similar. Cohort-specific growth rates ranged from 1.741 in 1994 to 1.933 mm day-1 in 1993. Mean ladyfish growth was best described by linear regression; however, natural growth was explained better by exponential regression. In the IRL, the corrected exponential growth equation yielded a size-at-age 1 of 156.0 mm SL, which corresponded to an estimated growth rate of 0.4356 mm day-1. In VC, the corrected exponential growth equation yielded a size-at-age 1 of 80 mm SL corresponding to an estimated growth rate of 0.2361 mm day-1.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1264/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Environmental Resources Management']]
[u'Climate change enlarges China\u2019s Great Bustards\u2019 (Otis tarda dybowskii) suitable wintering distribution in the 21st century', ['Chunrong Mi', 'Huettmann Falk', 'Yumin Guo'], u'2015-07-26', u'Rapidly changing climate makes humans realize that there is a critical need to rethink the current conservation and incorporate climate change adaptation into conservation planning. Whether Great Bustards\u2019 (Otis tarda dybowskii), a globally endangered species whose population is approximately 1,500~2,200 individuals in China, would survive in a changing climate environment is an important protection issue. In this study, we selected the most suitable species distribution model for bustards from four machine learning models, combining two modelling approaches (TreeNet and Random Forest) with two sets of variables (correlated variables removed or not), using common evaluation methods (AUC, Kappa and TSS) and independent testing data. We found Random Forest with all environmental variables outperformed in all assessment methods. Projected the best model to the latest IPCC-CMIP5 climate scenarios (RCP 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5 in BCC-CSM1-1), we found suitable wintering habitats in the current bustards distribution would increase during the 21st century, and dramatically extend eastwards, lightly northwards and westwards, with ongoing climate change. Northeast Plain and the south of North China and the North of East China would become two major suitable wintering habitats of bustards. However, some current suitable habitats will experience a reduction, such as in Middle and Lower Yangtze. Although our results suggest the habitats quantity and quality would widen with climate changing, greater efforts should be undertaken on human disturbance, such as pollution, hunting, unsuitable agriculture development, infrastructure construction, habitat fragmentation, oil and mine exploitation. All of which are negatively and intensely linked with global change.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1263/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'College of Nature Conservation, Beijing Forestry University', u'Institute of Geographic Sciences and Natural Resources Research, University of Chinese Academy of Science', u'EWHALE Lab, Department of Biology and Wildlife, Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska Fairbanks']]
[u'My flipped classroom: what I did and how I did it', ['Jan H. Jensen'], u'2015-07-26', u'In this chapter I describe my own personal experiences with the flipped classroom approach (e.g. lectures at home, problem solving in class) called peer instruction. I describe both the technical aspects such as making video lectures, practical aspects such how to get started, and pedagogical aspects such as curriculum design and how to write good peer instruction questions. Additional and updated material, including short tutorial videos and many additional links to extra material can be found at tinyurl.com/janstips.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1262/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of  Chemistry, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Does intrinsically disordered caldesmon bind calmodulin via the \u201cbuttons on a string\u201d mechanism?', ['Sergei E Permyakov', 'Eugene A Permyakov', 'Vladimir N Uversky'], u'2015-07-25', u'We show here that chicken gizzard caldesmon (CaD) and its C-terminal domain (residues 636-771, CaD136) are intrinsically disordered proteins. The computational and experimental analyses of the wild type CaD136 and series of its single tryptophan mutants (W674A, W707A, and W737A) and a double tryptophan mutant (W674A/W707A) suggested that although the interaction of CaD136 with calmodulin (CaM) can be driven by the non-specific electrostatic attraction between these oppositely charged molecules, the specificity of CaD136-CaM binding is likely to be determined by the specific packing of important CaD136 tryptophan residues at the CaD136-CaM interface. It is suggested that this interaction can be described as the \u201cbuttons on a charged string\u201d model, where the electrostatic attraction between the intrinsically disordered CaD136 and the CaM is solidified in a \u201csnapping buttons\u201d manner by specific packing of the CaD136 \u201cpliable buttons\u201d (which are the short segments of fluctuating local structure condensed around the tryptophan residues) at the CaD136-CaM interface. Our data also show that all three \u201cbuttons\u201d are important for binding, since mutation of any of the tryptophans affects CaD136-CaM binding and since CaD136 remains CaM-buttoned even when two of the three tryptophans are mutated to alanines.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1261/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Institute for Biological Instrumentation, Russian Academy of Science', u'Department of Molecular Medicine, University of South Florida']]
[u'Phylogeography of Arabidopsis halleri (Brassicaceae) in mountain regions of Central Europe inferred from cpDNA variation and ecological niche modelling', ['Pawel Wasowicz', 'Maxime Pauwels', 'Andrzej Pasierbinski', 'Ewa M Przedpelska-Wasowicz', 'Alicja A. Babst-Kostecka', 'Pierre Saumitou-Laprade', 'Adam Rostanski'], u'2015-07-22', u'The present study aimed to investigate phylogeographical patterns present within A. halleri in Central Europe, to propose hypotheses explaining the emergence of these patterns and to formulate hypotheses on the formation of the present day range of A. halleri in the region. 1281 accessions sampled from 52 populations within the investigated area were used in the study of genetic variation based on chloroplast DNA. Over 500 high quality species occurrence records were used in ecological niche modelling experiments. We evidenced the presence of a clear phylogeographic structure within A. halleri in Central Europe. Our results suggest that the species might have not survived the last glacial maximum in the Carpathians and Sudetes and that its range during the last glacial maximum might have consisted of at least two major parts: (1) a northern refugium consisting of vast refugial areas north and northeast of the Alps and (2) a southern refugium located in the Dinaric Alps and Balkan Mts. We postulate that the Sudetes and Western Carpathians were colonised mainly by plants originating from the northern refugium, whereas populations from the Eastern Carpathians originate from southern refugium. We also discuss our results in relation to the problematic taxonomy of the species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1259/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography'], [u'Icelandic Institute of Natural History', u'Faculty of Biology and Environmental Protection, Department of Botany and Nature Protection, University of Silesia', u'Unit\xe9 Evo-Eco-Pal\xe9o (EEP) - UMR 8198, Universit\xe9 des Sciences et Technologies de Lille (Lille I)', u'Institute of Botany, University of Warsaw', u'Department of Ecology, Institute of Botany, Polish Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Workload assessment for mental arithmetic tasks using the task-evoked pupillary response', ['Gerhard Marquart', 'Joost de Winter'], u'2015-07-22', u'Pupillometry is a promising method for assessing mental workload and could be helpful in the optimization of systems that involve human-computer interaction. The present study focuses on replicating the studies by Ahern (1978) and Klingner (2010), which found that for three levels of difficulty of mental multiplications, the more difficult multiplications yielded larger dilations of the pupil. Using a remote eye tracker, our research expands upon these two previous studies by statistically testing for each 1.5 s interval of the calculation period (1) the mean absolute pupil diameter (MPD), (2) the mean pupil diameter change (MPDC) with respect to the pupil diameter during the pre-stimulus accommodation period, and (3) the mean pupil diameter change rate (MPDCR). An additional novelty of our research is that we compared the pupil diameter measure with a self-report measure of workload, the NASA Task Load Index (NASA-TLX), and with the mean blink rate (MBR). The results showed that the findings of Ahern and Klingner were replicated, and that the MPD and MPDC discriminated just as well between the lowest and highest difficulty levels as did the NASA-TLX. The MBR, on the other hand, did not interpretably differentiate between the difficulty levels. Moderate to strong correlations were found between the MPDC and the proportion of incorrect responses, indicating that the MPDC was higher for participants with a poorer performance. For practical applications, validity could be improved by combining pupillometry with other physiological techniques.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1105/', ['Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of BioMechanical Engineering, Faculty of Mechanical, Maritime and Materials Engineering, Delft University of Technology']]
[u'Prioritization of actions needed to develop IT skills among healthcare workforce', ['Sisi Li', 'Panagiotis D Bamidis', 'Stathis Konstantinidis', 'Vicente Traver', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2015-07-21', u'Background: Health related information and communication technology is globally an important and growing sector. With the promise of more efficient and cost-effective care, eHealth is becoming a key priority to address the current challenges faced by health systems worldwide. Addressing IT skills for health care workforce is seen as an important element of achieving greater social inclusion. Objective: To identify and prioritize the actions needed to improve the IT skills of health care workforce across the EU from different perspectives of experts in health care. Methods: A diverse group of experts, representing different fields of expertise in health care and geographical locations participated in the study. A scientific priority-setting methodology was used to systematically list and score actions that would improve IT skills among health care workforce. The participants evaluated the actions using several criteria: feasibility, effectiveness, deliverability, and maximum impact on IT skills improvement. Results: The actions that scored highest were related to appropriate training, integrating eHealth in curriculum, involving health care workforce in the eHealth solution development, improving awareness of eHealth as well as learning arrangement. The actions that scored lowest were related to the workforce management, identification of IT skills competences needed, joint funding for training program and training on potential workforce. Conclusion: To maintain highly IT skilled health care workforce, eHealth related knowledge and skills in current curricula, improving awareness of eHealth and continuous training according to the different professionals\u2019 needs should be addressed. In addition, healthcare workforce should be actively and continuously included in the development of eHealth solutions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1137/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Karolinska Institutet', u'Aristotle University of Thessaloniki', u'University of Nottingham', u'Polytechnical University of Valencia']]
[u'Hydrogeomorphic and biotic drivers of instream wood differ across sub-basins of the Columbia River Basin, USA', ['Nate Hough-Snee', 'Alan Kasprak', 'Rebecca K Rossi', 'Nicolaas Bouwes', 'Brett B Roper', 'Joseph Wheaton'], u'2015-07-21', u'Instream wood promotes habitat heterogeneity through its influence on flow hydraulics and channel geomorphology. Within the Columbia River Basin, USA, wood is vital for the creation and maintenance of habitat for threatened salmonids. However, our understanding of the relative roles of the climatic, geomorphic, and ecological processes that source wood to streams is limited, and making it difficult to identify baseline predictions of instream wood and create targets for stream restoration. Here we investigate how instream wood frequency and volume differ between seven sub-basins of the Columbia River Basin and what processes shape these differences within these sub-basins. We collected data on wood volume and frequency, discharge and stream power, and riparian and watershed forest structure for use in modeling wood volume and frequency. Using random forest models, we found that mean annual precipitation, riparian tree cover, and the individual watershed were the most important predictors of wood volume and frequency. Within sub-basins, we used linear models, finding that some basins had unique predictors of wood. Discharge, watershed area or precipitation often combined with forest cover, riparian conifer and/or large tree cover in models of instream large wood volume and frequency. In many sub-basins, models showed at least one hydrologic variable, indicative of transport capacity and one ecological variable, indicative of the reach or upstream watershed\u2019s ability to grow measurable instream wood. We conclude that basin-specific models yield important insights into the hydrologic and ecological processes that influence wood loads, creating tractable hypotheses for building predictive models of instream wood.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1256/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Watershed Sciences and Ecology Center, Utah State University', u'Department of Watershed Sciences, Utah State University', u'Eco Logical Research', u'National Stream and Aquatic Ecology Center, USDA Forest Service']]
[u'Implanted intracortical electrodes as chronic neural interfaces to the central nervous system', ['Peter Henderson'], u'2015-07-21', u'Recent developments in neural interfaces show that it is possible to have fine control of a robotic prosthetic by interfacing with the motor cortex of the human brain. Development of long term systems for this purpose is a challenging task with many different possibilities. Intracortical implants have shown the most promise in providing enough signal selectivity and throughput for complex control systems with many degrees of freedom. Intracortical systems generally fall into two categories: MEMS devices and bundle of wire systems. While both show promise, MEMS systems have been greatly popularized due to their reproducibility. In particular, the Michigan probe and Utah microarray are often used as a base for construction of more complex intracortical systems. However, these systems still carry many downsides. Their long-term viability is questionable, with mixed results. The effects of damage from implantation are still inconclusive and immune responses remain a problem for long-term use. While there is some promising research in the use of bioactive molecules and biocompatible materials to prevent immune responses, more controlled study is needed before intracortical systems become widespread.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1255/', ['Bioengineering', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Electrical, Computer, and Software Engineering, McGill University']]
[u'Inter simple sequence repeats (ISSRs): Neglected DNA markers for molecular dissection of Plasmodium species in long-tailed Macaque (Macaca fascicularis)', ['Parastoo Khajeaian', 'Soon Guan Tan', 'Alireza Valdiani', 'Christina Seok Yien Yong', 'Mohammad Zareian Jahromi', 'Noorjahan Banu Alitheen', 'Jeffrine Japning Rovie-Ryan'], u'2015-07-21', u'Understanding the genetic variation of the Plasmodium parasites could play an important role in controlling and preventing this lethal infection. Inter simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers have successfully been tested for investigating the genetic diversity of malaria vectors. It is hypothesized that ISSRs could lead to fruitful results in studying the genetic variation of Plasmodium species, as well. To illustrate the genetic diversity of two infectious Plasmodium species, including Plasmodium knowlesi and Plasmodium cynomolgi, infected and uninfected monkey blood samples were separately collected on filter papers (FTA cards), and used for DNA extraction. A total of 103 and 95 polymorphic ISSR loci were detected in infected and uninfected samples, respectively. Cluster analysis of the Plasmodium and Macaca fascicularis accessions both resulted in the generation of three clusters. However, the most significant result of the cluster analysis was revealing the high efficiency of ISSR markers in the discrimination of the two Plasmodium species from each other. The cluster analysis showed a wide range of genetic diversity among both Plasmodium and the long-tailed Macaque accessions. The principal component analysis (PCA) also confirmed the cluster analysis results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1253/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biotechnology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology', 'Parasitology'], [u'Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Department of Biochemistry, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Department of Biology, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Institute of Bioscience, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Department of Wildlife and National Parks (DWNP), Wildlife Genetic Resource Bank (WGRB) Laboratory']]
[u'Unraveling mysteries of personal performance style; biomechanics of left-hand position changes (shifting) in violin performance', ['Peter Visentin', 'Shiming Li', 'Guillaume Tardif', 'Gongbing Shan'], u'2015-07-21', u'Instrumental music performance ranks among the most complex of learned human behaviors, requiring development of highly nuanced powers of sensory and neural discrimination, intricate motor skills, and adaptive abilities in a temporal activity. Teaching, learning and performing on the violin generally occur within musico-cultural parameters most often transmitted through aural traditions that include both verbal instruction and performance modeling. In most parts of the world, violin is taught in a manner virtually indistinguishable from that used 200 years ago. The current study uses methods from movement science to examine the \u201chow\u201d and \u201cwhat\u201d of left-hand position changes (shifting), a movement skill essential during violin performance. In doing so, it begins a discussion of artistic individualization in terms of anthropometry, the performer-instrument interface, and the strategic use of motor behaviors. Results based on 540 shifting samples, a case series of 6 professional-level violinists, showed that some elements of the skill were individualized in surprising ways while others were explainable by anthropometry, ergonomics and entrainment. Remarkably, results demonstrated each violinist to have developed an individualized pacing for shifts, a feature that should influence timing effects and prove foundational to aesthetic outcomes during performance. Such results underpin the potential for scientific methodologies to unravel mysteries of performance that are associated with a performer\u2019s personal artistic style.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1252/', ['Kinesiology'], [u'Department of Music, University of Lethbridge', u'College of Physical Education, Ludong University', u'Department of Music, University of Alberta', u'Department of Kinesiology, University of Lethbridge']]
[u'External morphology of eyes and Nebenaugen of caridean decapods \u2013 ecological and systematic considerations', ['Magnus L Johnson', 'Nicola C Dobson', 'Sammy De Grave'], u'2015-07-21', u'Most caridean decapods have compound eyes of the reflecting superposition kind and some additionally possess an accessory eye-like organ of unknown function also referred to as the nebenauge. We examined 308 caridean genera to assess the general morphology of the eye, rostrum length, eye diameter and the presence or absence and, when present, the diameter of the nebenauge. We have attempted to relate these data to ecological and taxonomic considerations. We consider there to be 6 distinct eye types based on the margin between the eyestalk and cornea. The presence of nebenaugen appears to be generally linked to an active lifestyle, as evidenced by the fact that species that have nebenaugen tend to have larger eyes and are more likely to have a distinct rostrum. We suggest that the inconsistencies in its presence/absence under both systematic and ecological lenses may indicate that when present it has various roles relating to behavioural and physiological rhythms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1251/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Centre for Environmental and Marine Sciences, University of Hull', u'Oxford University Museum of Natural History, University of Oxford']]
[u'The multiple origins of the H5N8 avian influenza sub-type', ['Andrew Dalby'], u'2015-07-21', u'A significant outbreak of H5N8 avian influenza began in early 2014 in Korea. H5N8 is a highly pathogenic avian influenza that is often fatal to chickens and other domestic poultry but which can be asymptomatic in ducks. The virus was also found in migratory birds in Europe and more recently in North America. This is the first time that an H5N8 outbreak has spread so widely and persisted for so long. Previous outbreaks have usually been short and geographically localised. In this study I present a phylogenetic analysis of all of the H5 hemagglutinin and N8 neuraminidase sequences to show that each of the H5N8 outbreaks has resulted from a different re-assortment event and that there have been at least 7 distinct origins of the viral sub-type since it was first characterised in a Turkey in Ireland in 1983.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1250/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, University of Westminster']]
[u'Is consciousness inherently unstable? An iterated data rate theorem model of high metabolic demand in neural tissues', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2015-07-21', u"Evolutionary process has selected for inherently unstable physiological systems in higher animals that can react swiftly to patterns of threat or affordance, for example blood pressure and the immune response. However, these require ongoing strict regulation: unregulated blood pressure is fatal, and immune cells can attack 'self' tissues. Consciousness, perhaps the most sophisticated rapid large-scale neural process, demands high rates of metabolic free energy to both operate and regulate the basic physiological machinery. Both the 'stream of consciousness' and the 'riverbanks' that confine it to useful realms are constructed and reconstructed moment-by-moment in response to highly dynamic internal and environmental circumstances. Using an information bottleneck method that links control and information theories, it is relatively easy to show that rapid response based on instability and its stabilization will always require high rates of metabolic free energy. In sum, neural structures in higher animals are highly 'coevolutionary', responding both to environmental signals and to signals from other physiological systems, and stabilizing coevolutionary cognitive structures is as difficult as programming them. Consciousness appears fundamentally unstable, and the necessary synergism between conscious action and its regulation underlies the ten-fold higher rate of metabolic energy consumption in human neural tissues. Implications for the etiology of certain psychiatric disorders are obvious.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1236/', ['Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Effects of phenolic antioxidants extraction from four selected seaweeds obtained from Sabah', ['Carmen Wai Foong Fu', 'Chun Wai Ho', 'Wilson Thau Lym Yong', 'Faridah Abas', 'Chin Ping Tan'], u'2015-07-20', u'Algal have attracted attention from biomedical scientists as they are a valuable natural source of secondary metabolites that exhibit antioxidant activities. In this study, single-factor experiments were conducted to investigate the best extraction conditions (ethanol concentration, solid-to-solvent ratio, extraction temperature and extraction time) in extracting antioxidant compounds and capacities from four species of seaweeds (Sargassum polycystum, Eucheuma denticulatum , Kappaphycus alvarezzi variance Buaya and Kappaphycus alvarezzi variance Giant) from Sabah. Total phenolic content (TPC) and total flavonoid content (TFC) assays were used to determine the phenolic and flavonoid concentrations, respectively, while 2,2-azinobis-3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS) and 2,2-diphenyl-1-picylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical scavenging capacity assays were used to evaluate the antioxidant capacities of all seaweed extracts. Results showed that extraction parameters had significant effect (p < 0.05) on the antioxidant compounds and antioxidant capacities of seaweed. Sargassum polycystum portrayed the most antioxidant compounds (37.41 \xb1 0.01 mg GAE/g DW and 4.54 \xb1 0.02 mg CE/g DW) and capacities (2.00 \xb1 0.01 \xb5mol TEAC/g DW and 0.84 \xb1 0.01 \xb5mol TEAC/g DW) amongst four species of seaweed. Single-factor experiments were proven as an effective tool to determine and quantify the relationship between a single factor and a single response variable.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1249/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Biotechnology', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'Department of Food Technology, Universiti Putra Malaysia', u'Department of Food Science and Nutrition, UCSI University', u'Biotechnology Research Institute, Universiti Malaysia Sabah', u'Department of Food Science, Universiti Putra Malaysia']]
[u'Efficiently extracting full parse trees using regular expressions with capture groups', ['Niko Schwarz', 'Aaron Karper', 'Oscar Nierstrasz'], u'2015-07-20', u'Regular expressions with capture groups offer a concise and natural way to define parse trees over the text that they are parsing, however classical algorithms only return a single match for each capture group, not the full parse tree. We describe an algorithm based on finite-state automata that extracts full parse trees from text in \u0398 (n,m) time and \u0398(dn + m) space (where n is the size of the text, m the size of the pattern, and d the number of groups in the pattern). It is the first to do so in a single pass with complete control over greediness. This allows the algorithm to process streaming data using all constructs familiar to users of regular expressions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1248/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Programming Languages'], [u'Software Composition Group, University of Bern']]
[u'Is Acropora palmata really coming back? an analysis from Los Roques, Venezuela', ['Aldo Croquer', 'Francoise Cavada-Blanco', 'Ainhoa L. Zubillaga', 'Esteban Agudo-Adriani'], u'2015-07-17', u'Ten years ago, we studied the distribution and status of Acropora palmata at archipelago Los Roques because the actual status of this species at Los Roques was unclear in this archipelago after its regional collapse. In that opportunity we aimed to produce a baseline study for this species in Los Roques combining population genetics with demographic data. At that time, our results suggested that this species had the potential to come back at least in 6 out of 10 surveyed sites. This conclusion was based upon high abundance, low disease prevalence, high genetic diversity and a dominance of sexual reproduction in these populations. However, we recognized that the potential of recovery could be hindered depending on local and regional threats. In 2014, the status of this species was re-evaluated by increasing the number of sites from 12 to 106 and by identifying and targeting local and global threats that may affect population recovery. The results from this new survey showed that A. palmata had a restricted distribution being only present in 15% of the surveyed sites. Large stands of old dead colonies were common throughout the archipelago; which demonstrates that this species has lost almost 50% of its original distribution over the past decades. In most cases live colonies were large adults (\u0334 2m height); however, partial mortality and degradation of living tissues were found in 45% of the colonies. Moreover 44.78% of them were located on degraded reefs. In the past 8 years, two massive bleaching events occurred in Los Roques, the last one was known to decrease coral cover to unprecedented levels in the the archipelago. These events might have produced significant mortality for this species for signs of recent mortality was also common across sites. In addition, a growing local tourism industry, which has become massive and the concomitant increase of pressure on ecosystems goods and services are both becoming a problem of serious concern. Our results suggest that increasing use conflicts within the MPA and global threats such as ocean warming could prevent the recovery of this endangered species in Los Roques.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1247/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Estudios Ambientales, Universidad Sim\xf3n Bol\xedvar', u'Estudios Biolog\xeda de Organismos, Universidad Sim\xf3n Bol\xedvar']]
[u'Developing science gateways for drug discovery in a grid environment', ['Horacio Perez-Sanchez', 'Vahid Rezaei Tabar', 'Vitaliy Mezhuyev', 'Duhu Man', 'Jorge Jpg Pena-Garcia', 'Helena den-Haan', 'Sandra Gesing'], u'2015-07-17', u'Methods for in-silico screening of large databases of molecules increasingly complement and replace experimental techniques to discover novel compounds to combat diseases. As these techniques become more complex and computationally costly we are faced with an increasing problem to provide the research community of life-sciences with a convenient tool for high-throughput virtual screening (HTVS) on distributed computing resources. To this end, we recently integrated the biophysics-based drug screening program FlexScreen into a service applicable for large-scale parallel screening and reusable in the context of scientific workflows. Our implementation, based on Pipeline Pilot and Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) provides an easy-to-use graphical user interface to construct complex workflows which can be executed on distributed computing resources, thus accelerating the throughput by several orders of magnitude.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1245/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Distributed and Parallel Computing'], [u'Bioinformatics and High Performance Computing Research Group (BIO-HPC), Computer Engeneering Department), Universidad Cat\xf3lica San Antonio (UCAM)', u'The National Organization for Educational Testing (NOET), Ministry of Science, Research and Technology', u'School of Biological Science, Institute for Research in Fundamental Science (IPM)', u'Faculty of Computer Systems and Software Engineering, University Malaysia Pahang', u'Department of Information Engineering, Graduate School of Engineering, Hiroshima University', u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering and Center for Research Computing, University of Notre Dame']]
[u'State-dependent behavior and alternative behavioral strategies in brown trout (Salmo trutta L.) fry', ['Joacim Naslund', 'Jorgen I Johnsson'], u'2015-07-17', u'Animals generally adjust their behavior in response to bodily state (e.g. size and energy reserves) to optimize energy intake in relation to mortality risk, weighing predation probability against starvation. Here we investigated whether brown trout adjust their behavior in relation to feeding history (energetic status) and body size during a major early-life selection bottleneck, when fast growth also appear to be important. We manipulated growth using different food ration schemes over two consecutive time periods (P1 = 12 days, P2 = 23 days), excluding social effects through individual isolation. During these experimental periods the fish were fed either high or low food rations in a crossed design. In behavioral trials following the treatment, where acute hunger levels were standardized among all treatments, fish that were initially fed high rations (P1) and thereafter low rations (P2) had on average 15-21% higher swimming activity than the other groups, but large within-treatment variation rendered only weak statistical support for the effect. Furthermore, fish on low ration during P2 tended to be more aggressive than fish on high ration. Size was related to behavioral expression, with larger fish being more active and aggressive. Swimming activity and active aggression were positively correlated, forming a behavioral syndrome in the studied population. Based on these behavioral traits we could also distinguish two behavioral clusters, one consisting of more active and aggressive individuals, and the other consisting of less active and aggressive individuals. This indicates that two behavioral strategies may exist in young brown trout.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1244/', ['Animal Behavior'], [u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'Assessing similarity: a semantic approach to non-evolutionary comparative homology', ['Lars Vogt'], u'2015-07-16', u"The concept of phylogenetic homology has been criticized of involving circular argumentation resulting from a methodological gap between its ontological definition and its empirical recognition criteria. Based on the role of similarity for the recognition of phylogenetic homologues I argue that phylogenetic homology presupposes non-evolutionary comparative homology. Due to their use of Platonic ideals, archetypes and the requirement of the a priori assumption of a stable positional reference system, pre-Darwinian notions of homology cannot be used in this context. Based on Young's concept of comparative homology, I suggest a similarity-based procedure for recognizing comparative homologues that utilizes a semantic framework. This approach circumvents the problems of the pre-Darwinian notions of comparative homology and provides the so far lacking conceptual basis for the application of recognition criteria of phylogenetic homology, adding the missing link to the logical chain for assessing phylogenetic homology and closing the methodological gap between its ontological definition and its epistemological recognition criteria. This approach to comparative homology provides an essential methodological framework for generalizing over individual organisms and identifying and demarcating anatomical structural kinds. It thus represents an important contribution to the theoretical and methodological foundation of both morphology and comparative biology.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1243/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Institut f\xfcr Evolutionsbiologie und \xd6kologie, Universit\xe4t Bonn']]
[u'Information-feed pathways in biological systems as evidence for occurrence of non-natural stimulus-functional response pairing', ['Imadol V Jeff-Eke'], u'2015-07-16', u'This paper explores a possible underlying tenet of classical information-feed pathways (feedback and feedforward) as seen in metabolism and signaling in biological systems. We intend to determine whether information-feed pathways derive from spatial and temporal overlap of event occurrences involving connection points of the information-feed loop. We shall revisit three known and established biological phenomena involving information-feed, in an attempt to deduce the principles governing such phenomena. We propose that such principles involve anticipatory associations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1242/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Morehouse School of Medicine']]
[u'A security survey of middleware for the Internet of Things', ['Paul Fremantle', 'Philip Scott'], u'2015-07-16', u'The rapid growth of small Internet connected devices, known as the Internet of Things (IoT), is creating a new set of challenges to create secure, private infrastructures. The purpose of this paper is to review the current literature on the challenges and approaches to security and privacy in the Internet of Things, with an especial focus on how these aspects are handled in IoT middleware. We focus on IoT middleware because many systems are built from existing middleware and these inherit the underlying security properties of the middleware framework. The paper is composed of three main sections. Firstly, we look at the general security and privacy challenges around IoT. Secondly, we present a structured literature review of the available middleware and how security is handled in these middleware approaches. Finally, we draw a set of conclusions and identify further work in this area.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1241/', ['Computer Networks and Communications', 'Embedded Computing', 'Real-Time and Embedded Systems', 'Security and Privacy', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'School of Computing, University of Portsmouth']]
[u'Auditory interfaces in automated driving: an international survey', ['Pavlo Bazilinskyy', 'Joost C. F. De Winter'], u'2015-07-16', u'This study investigated peoples\u2019 opinion on auditory interfaces in contemporary cars and their willingness to be exposed to auditory feedback in automated driving. We used an Internet-based survey to collect 1,205 responses from 91 countries. The participants stated their attitudes towards two existing auditory driver assistance systems, a parking assistant (PA) and forward collision warning system (FCWS), as well as towards a futuristic augmented sound system (FS) proposed for fully automated driving. The respondents were positive towards the PA and FCWS, and rated their willingness to have these systems as 3.87 and 3.77, respectively (1 = disagree strongly, 5 = agree strongly). The respondents tolerated the FS. The results showed that a female voice is the most preferred feedback mode for the support of takeover requests in highly automated driving, regardless of whether the respondents\u2019 country is English speaking or not. The present results could be useful for designers of automated vehicles and other stakeholders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1069/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Autonomous Systems', 'Multimedia'], [u'Department of Biomechanical Engineering, Faculty of Mechanical, Maritime and Materials Engineering, Delft University of Technology']]
[u'Effects of in situ climate warming on monarch caterpillar (Danaus plexippus) development', ['Nathan P Lemoine', 'Jillian N Capdevielle', 'John D Parker'], u'2015-07-15', u'Climate warming will fundamentally alter basic life history strategies of many ectothermic insects. In the lab, rising temperatures increase growth rates of lepidopteran larvae, but also reduce final pupal mass and increase mortality. Using in situ field warming experiments on their natural host plants, we assessed the impact of climate warming on development of monarch (Danaus plexippus) larvae. Monarchs were reared on Asclepias tuberosa grown under \u2018Ambient\u2019 and \u2018Warmed\u2019 conditions. We quantified time to pupation, final pupal mass, and survivorship. Warming significantly decreased time to pupation, such that an increase of 1\u02da C corresponded to a 0.5 day decrease in pupation time. In contrast, survivorship and pupal mass were not affected by warming. Our results indicate that climate warming will speed the developmental rate of monarchs, influencing their ecological and evolutionary dynamics. However, the effects of climate warming on larval development in other monarch populations and at different times of year should be investigated.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1240/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Biology, Colorado State University', u'Department of Environmental Science, Policy, and Management, University of California - Berkeley', u'Smithsonian Environmental Research Center']]
[u'How the flow and processing of information shapes the cerebrum', ['Marc H.E. de Lussanet'], u'2015-07-15', u'The cerebrum of mammals spans a vast range of sizes and yet has a very regular structure. The amount of folding of the cortical surface and the proportion of white matter gradually increase with size, but the underlying mechanisms remain elusive. Here, two laws are derived to fully explain these cerebral scaling relations. The two general laws are derived from the notion that total processing power of the cortex is determined by the total cortical surface (i.e., the number of neurons), whereas the most efficient over-all flow of information is governed by the size of local networks (cortical columns). Since information is transferred by axonal connections which have a definite volume, a trade-off can be formulated from theoretical considerations between local, inter-gyral information transfer and long-range information transfer. It can be shown that this trade-off is governed by a single parameter describing the size of local networks, tlocal. Despite having just one free parameter, the first law fits the mammalian cerebrum better than any existing function, both across species and within humans. According to the second law, the scaling of white matter volume is also determined by the information principles. It follows that large cerebrums have much local processing and little global information flow. Moreover, paradoxically, a further increase in long-range connections would decrease the efficiency of information flow. These theoretical scaling principles help to compare the cerebrums across mammals regardless their size.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/239/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Institute for Sports Science, University of M\xfcnster']]
[u'Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG) in jeopardy \u2013 Where have the flowers gone?', ['Theodor C. H. Cole'], u'2015-07-15', u'The Angiosperm Phylogeny Group (APG) is a loose assemblage of systematic botanists aiming to establish a stable, modern classification system of flowering plants strongly based on molecular phylogenetics. The group published three seminal papers starting in 1998. An update to be entitled "APG IV" is in preparation and due shortly. A survey was conducted among systematic botanists in the forefront of this project, the results of which were recently published. The author of this Opinion Piece comments on the concept, evaluation, and results of this survey, and on the advice provided by the initiators, in particular regarding the order Boraginales. Expert opinion should be favored over a general majority vote on suggestive questions of an uncoordinated survey conducted by a single "authority". Science is based on knowledge and on scholarly expertise, and should not be made a matter of popular votes and majority preferences.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1238/', ['Plant Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University']]
[u'A proposed solution to the problem posed by reduction(s) in osmolyte infusion interval: A theory on the origins of non-natural stimulus-functional response pairs in biological systems', ['Imadol V Jeff-Eke'], u'2015-07-15', u'This work follows as a response to a problem posed in a previous work (Jeff-Eke, 2015b). Here we propose and explore a probable solution to the posed problem of how well a cellular system can tolerate random changes to the frequency of osmolytes infused into an intracellular space of interest. The proposed solution involves the ability of biological systems to anticipate occurrences of imminent challenge stimuli, with such means involving alignment of moments of initiation of the required functional response mechanism(s) to stimuli, in relation to moments of initiation of occurrences of these stimuli. The resultant outcome is reduction of the lag interval for the functional response mechanism. We also present propositions on the means by which these anticipatory relationships may be formed, and some consequences for biological systems. By stating anticipatory roles in biological systems, we are suggesting a possible origin for non-natural stimulus-functional response pairing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1187/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Morehouse School of Medicine']]
[u'Evidence for the s count macrogene', ['Russell Schexnayder'], u'2015-07-15', u'Background: A macrogene is defined here as a gene on which successive mutations incrementing a repeat count produces successive punctuated evolutionary events in species that are homogeneous for it. The set of repeat count on the asp (abnormal spindle) family of gene is thought to affect brain size in mammals. Corticogenesis requires two integer valued (quantum) variables, the f and s counts, to determine the number of division cycles during the first and second phases, respectively, of neuron production in the cerebral cortex. Quantum \u2018extra\u2019 neuron theory hypothesizes that increments in a quantum variable, the n count, cause punctuated encephalization events in species that are homogenous for it. There is evidence in six pairs of inbred mice strains for one or more major genes affecting brain size. Results: The s count is probably equal to the n count plus a positive integer. The calculated n counts are different in three of the four pairs of strains studied where encephalization data has been previously published. Five different n counts have been found in eleven mouse strains. The difference between the n counts of humans and mice is about 25. Conclusions: Encephalization in mammals may be caused by a macrogene that determines the s count. This theory can be tested by determining the s counts of the various mice strains. However, the asp family of gene is probably not the s count macrogene because the difference in the asp counts of humans and mice of 13 (= 74 \u2013 61) is much smaller than the difference in their s counts of around 25.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1237/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Unaffiliated']]
[u'Learning by teaching in dental informatics: An explorative study', ['Christina Athanasopoulou', 'Panagiotis Bamidis'], u'2015-07-15', u"An intriguing educational approach, learning by teaching, was applied in the course of dental informatics. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect that teaching expectancy (preparation to teach) and actually teaching, have on skills and knowledge that students are expected to acquire during the course. In order to assess the applicability of this method to various forms of educational materials, students were asked to prepare and present educational objects that would be part of the current semester's curriculum. These were short lectures, computer laboratory exercises and virtual patient cases. The instructors evaluated their content and presentation fulfillment. Focus group sessions were held so as to capture the students' perception of the pedagogic technique. The results indicate that learning by teaching can enhance the quality of knowledge in Dental Informatics and increase computer, research, communication and cognitive skills of the involved students.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1235/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Medical School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki']]
[u'Rapid loss of phosphorus during early pedogenesis along a glacier retreat choronosequence, Gongga Mountain (SW China)', ['Yanhong Wu', 'Jun Zhou', 'Haijian Bing', 'Hongyang Sun', 'Jipeng Wang'], u'2015-07-15', u'The loss of phosphorus (P) during the early pedogenesis stage is important at the ecosystem level, and it also plays an important role in the global P cycle. The seasonal variation of total P (Pt) and its fractions along a young soil chronosequence (Hailuogou chronosequence) on the eastern slope of Gongga Mountain, SW China, was investigated based on the modified Hedley fractionation technique to understand P loss during the early pedogenesis stage. The results showed that the mineral P (mainly apatite) was the dominant fraction of Pt in the C horizon of the soil, and the seasonal difference in Pt and its fractions was insignificant. In the A horizon, Pt concentrations decreased markedly compared with those in the C horizon, and as the age of the soil increased, the inorganic P (Pi) significantly decreased and the organic P (Po) prominently increased. Seasonally, the P fractions exhibited various distributions in the A horizon. The variation of Pt and its fractions revealed that the P loss was rapid along the 120-year soil chronosequence. The concentrations of Pt in the original minerals decreased more than 50% in the 52 years since the glacier retreated, and the depletion reached almost 80% at the 120-year pedogenesis. The loss of P from the soil of the Hailuogou chronosequence was mainly attributed to weathering, plant uptake, and transport by runoff. The data obtained indicated that the glacier retreat chronosequence could be used to elucidate the fast rate of P loss during the early pedogenesis stage.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1234/', ['Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Soil Science'], [u'Mountain Environment Research, Chengdu Institute of Mountain Hazards and Environment, CAS']]
[u'N-Acyl homoserine lactone-mediated quorum sensing in pathogenic Aeromonas veronii biovar sobria strain 159: Identification of LuxIR homologs', ['Xin Yue Chan', 'Kah Yan How', 'Wai Fong Yin', 'Kok Gan Chan'], u'2015-07-14', u'Quorum sensing (QS) is a mechanism that plays important roles in gene expression in response to an expanding bacterial population. In many Gram-negative bacteria, N-acyl homoserine lactone is mainly secreted as the diffusible signalling molecules. This QS system has been shown to control diverse array of virulence and secondary metabolism. Recently, whole genome sequencing of Aeromonas veronii biovar sobria strain 159 was performed. Genome comparison with closely-related Aeromonas species showed that A. veronii strain 159 shares a high degree of genome synteny with A. hydrophila ATCC 7966. A detailed genome analysis and gene annotation led us to the findings that A. veronii strain 159 harbors QS system which relies on its signal generator, AveI and the transcriptional regulator, AveR. This Aeromonas strain was found to secrete N-butanoylacyl homoserine lactone (C4-HSL). Its LuxIR homologs are similar to proteins of LuxIR famililies among Aeromonas species. This study aims to gain further insights into AveIR system and to compare with AhyIR from A. hydrophila ATCC 7966 and AsaIR from A. salmonicida.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1232/', ['Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Institute of Biological Sciences, University of Malaya']]
[u'Song characteristics of Oriental Cuckoo Cuculus optatus and Himalayan Cuckoo Cuculus saturatus and implications for taxonomy and distribution', ['Canwei Xia', 'Wei Liang', 'Geoff J Carey', 'Yanyun Zhang'], u'2015-07-14', u'Song features during the breeding season are important for determining classifications. Whether Oriental Cuckoo Cuculus optatus and Himalayan Cuckoo C. saturatus inhabiting the Palearctic and Oriental realms respectively can be distinguished according to song characteristics is uncertain. In this study, we performed a thorough investigation of the song characteristics of these taxa by collecting and analyzing recordings of song in their areas of distribution. We found that these cuckoos could be divided into two groups based on the number of notes in their songs. In addition, we observed significant differences in song duration and frequencies such that these two species could be clearly distinguished based on discriminant analysis of song features. Songs of Oriental cuckoos had two notes, whereas songs of Himalayan cuckoos had more than two notes. Thus, our data supported the separation of the two species based on their song features. The areas of distribution of the two species are thus refined, with Oriental Cuckoo distributed in Northeast China, Xinjiang in northwest China, Japan and Russia, and Himalayan Cuckoo distributed in the Himalayas through central and northern China to northeast Hebei, and the northern part of southeast Asia (Guangxi, China). The taxonomic status of birds in Taiwan indicates a closer relationship to C. optatus, which is contrary to the prevailing interpretation and requires further study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1231/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Ministry of Education Key Laboratory for Biodiversity Science and Ecological Engineering, College of Life Sciences, Beijing Normal University', u'AEC Ltd, 127 Commercial Centre, Palm Springs']]
[u'A transcriptome resource for the coral, Orbicella faveolata (Scleractinia-Meruliniidae) \u2013 an emerging model of coral innate immunity', ['David A Anderson', 'Marcus E Walz', 'Ernesto Weil', 'Peter Tonellato', 'Matthew C Smith'], u'2015-07-13', u'Research on climate change-driven coral disease outbreaks has greatly advanced our understanding of the coral innate immune system, and coral genomics has provided insight into the evolution of metazoan immune systems. However, only recently has next generation sequencing (NGS) technology been used to investigate coral immune responses to environmental stress and disease. In the present investigation, tissue of the threatened Caribbean reef-building coral, Orbicella faveolata\xb8 was collected during a warm water thermal anomaly and coral disease outbreak in 2010 in Puerto Rico. Multiplex sequencing of messenger RNA that was extracted from tissue samples of diseased, bleached and apparently healthy coral colonies was conducted on the Illumina GAIIx platform, and total reads were pooled accordingly for de novo assembly into contigs by Trinity software. From 70,745,177 raw short-sequence reads, 32,463 contigs were assembled in silico and taxonomically identified as O. faveolata in origin. The resulting reference transcriptome was annotated with gene ontologies, and sequences were mapped to KEGG pathways. The reference transcriptome presented here expands upon the genetic data currently available for O. faveolata. By sampling coral colonies affected by infectious disease and thermal stress in situ, it was possible to enrich the data set for genes that are expressed under natural conditions as part of the coral innate immune response. The results of the present investigation advance our understanding of the coral immune system and expand upon bioinformatic data available for O. faveolata \u2013 a threatened coral species that is widely studied as a model for immune responses to climate-driven stress and disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1230/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Pathology and Immunology, Washington University in St. Louis', u'Joseph J. Zilber School of Public Health, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee', u'Department of Marine Sciences, University of Puerto Rico at Mayaguez', u'Center for Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School', u'School of Freshwater Sciences, University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee']]
[u'2,4-dinitrophenol downregulates genes for diabetes and fatty liver in obese mice', ['Qian Gao', 'Jiang He', 'Tao Liao', 'Qing-Ping Zeng'], u'2015-07-13', u'Whether obesity is a disease or a risk factor of chronic diseases including diabetes and fatty liver remains debating. We report here that a high-fat diet (HFD) alone or HFD and intramuscular injection of mice with a high dose (1.2 mg/kg) of lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induces the peripheral noninflammatory obesity. In contrast, HFD and intraperitoneal injection of mice with a low dose (0.25 mg/kg) of LPS induces the visceral low-grade inflammatory obesity. While the noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM)- and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD)-related genes are globally upregulated in HFD+low-dose LPS mice, NIDDM and NAFLD genes are not extensively upregulated in HFD+high-dose LPS mice. The mitochondrial uncoupler 2,4-dinitrophenol (DNP) was found to exert a weight-reducing effect in obese mice by downregulating NF-\u03baB-primed inflammatory response accompanying with NIDDM and NAFLD genes, thereby abrogating inflammatory hepatic injury. In conclusion, visceral low-grade inflammatory obesity that predisposes NIDDM and NAFLD can be ameliorated by DNP via anti-inflammation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1229/', ['Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Pathology', 'Pharmacology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Tropical Medicine Institute, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine']]
[u'Ammonium interference reduced copper uptake by formaldehyde-crosslinked Sargassum sp. seaweed', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2015-07-13', u'Sargassum sp., a marine brown macroalgae, is an efficient sorbent for various heavy metals at high concentrations. Nevertheless, the efficiency at which seaweed removes heavy metals from dilute solutions and the effect of ammonium on metal removal is not well understood; an issue of importance given the ubiquity of nitrogenous compounds in the environment arising from various surface run-offs. Herein, the effect of ammonium on copper removal (at trace to low concentration) by formaldehyde crosslinked Sargassum sp. (treated SW) was studied. Due to high copper background, equilibrium sorption experiments was inconclusive concerning treated SW\u2019s ability in removing copper (<1000 ppb), but rapid copper sorption observed in kinetic experiments suggested potential feasibility of the process. Within initial copper concentration of 4 to 20 ppm and pH 2 to 5, experiments revealed that, above a threshold concentration of [NH4+-N] of 50 ppm, ammonium impeded copper uptake on treated SW in a concentration-dependent manner. Specifically, sorption kinetics slowed and uptake capacity decreased with increase in [NH4+-N] from 0 to 2500 ppm. Collectively, beyond demonstrating that treated SW could remove copper from dilute solutions, revelations that ammonium reduced copper sorption highlighted the importance of accounting for the effect in data interpretation and modelling.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1228/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Understanding text-based persuasion and support tactics of concerned significant others', ['Katherine van Stolk-Cooke', 'Marie Hayes', 'Amit Baumel', 'Frederick Muench'], u'2015-07-13', u'The behavior of concerned significant others (CSOs) can have a measurable impact on the health and wellness of individuals attempting to meet behavioral and health goals, and research is needed to better understand the attributes of text-based CSO language when encouraging target significant others (TSOs) to achieve those goals. In an effort to inform the development of interventions for CSOs, this study examined the language content of brief text-based messages generated by CSOs to motivate TSOs to achieve a behavioral goal. CSOs generated brief text-based messages for TSOs for three scenarios: (1) to help TSOs achieve the goal, (2) in the event that the TSO is struggling to meet the goal, and (3) in the event that the TSO has given up on meeting the goal. Results indicate that there was a significant relationship between the tone and compassion of messages generated by CSOs, the CSOs\u2019 perceptions of TSO motivation, and their expectation of a grateful or annoyed reaction by the TSO to their feedback or support. Results underscore the importance of attending to patterns in language when CSOs communicate with TSOs about goal achievement or failure, and how certain variables in the CSOs\u2019 perceptions of their TSOs affect these characteristics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1227/', ['Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, Inc.', u'Psychiatry, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System', u'Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, Inc.']]
[u'Buyanghuanwu decoction inhibited TLR4-induced activation of nuclear factor-kappa B in acute carbon monoxide poisoning rats', ['Weirong Li', 'Xiuwei Wang', 'Zhen Guan', 'Yufei Zheng', 'Xiaodong Zhang', 'Jing Shi', 'Bo Niu'], u'2015-07-13', u'Acute carbon monoxide poisoning (ACMP) is one of the most common types of poisoning worldwide, and may result in delayed encephalopathy, however, its pathogenesis remains obscure and there is no optimal treatment strategy for the patients with ACMP. Here, we developed the ACMP rat model to observe the protective effects of Buyanghuanwu decoction (BYHWD) on hippocampal neuron. BYHWD (per 5 g/kg) were intragastric administration to rats twice each day for 28 days after ACMP. In ACMP + BYHWD group rats, the neuronal injury in the hippocampal region was significantly less than that of ACMP group\u2019s. BYHWD of intragastric administration also markedly decreased the expression of the TLR4, MyD88, NF-\u03baB P65 after acute carbon monoxide poisoning (P<0.05). TNF-\u03b1\u3001IL-1\u03b2 protein level in ACMP + BYHWD group was lower than that of ACMP group (P<0.05). Our results suggested that decreased the activation of TLR4- NF-\u03baB signal pathway due to BYHWD may partially account for its effect of neuroprotection standing against ACMP, and inhibited the inflammatory reaction to promote the ability recovery of learning and memory in ACMP rats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1226/', ['Immunology', 'Neurology'], [u'Department of Neurology, Tai Yuan Central Hospital', u'Beijing Municipal Key Laboratory of Child Development and Nutriomics, Capital Institute of Pediatrics', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Shanxi Medical University']]
[u'Swarm v2: highly-scalable and high-resolution amplicon clustering', ['Frederic Mahe', 'Torbjrn  Rognes', 'Christopher Quince', 'Colomban de Vargas', 'Micah Dunthorn'], u'2015-07-10', u'Previously we presented Swarm v1, a novel and open source amplicon clustering program that produced fine-scale molecular operational taxonomic units (OTUs), free of arbitrary global clustering thresholds and input-order dependency. Swarm v1 worked with an initial phase that used iterative single-linkage with a local clustering threshold (d), followed by a phase that used the internal abundance structures of clusters to break chained OTUs. Here we present Swarm v2 that has two important novel features: 1) a new algorithm for d = 1 that allows the computation time of the program to scale linearly with increasing amounts of data; and 2) the new fastidious option that reduces under-grouping by grafting low abundant OTUs (e.g., singletons and doubletons) onto larger ones. Swarm v2 also directly integrates the clustering and breaking phases, dereplicates sequencing reads with d = 0, outputs OTU representatives in fasta format, and plots individual OTUs as two-dimensional networks.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1222/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Ecology, Technische Universit\xe4t Kaiserslautern', u'Department of Informatics, University of Oslo', u'Department of Microbiology, Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet', u'Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick', u'UMR 7144, EPEP -- \xc9volution des Protistes et des \xc9cosyst\xe8mes P\xe9lagiques, Station Biologique de Roscoff, CNRS', u'UMR7144 Station Biologique de Roscoff, Sorbonne Universit\xe9s, UPMC Univ Paris 06']]
[u'A standardized, extensible framework for optimizing classification improves marker-gene taxonomic assignments', ['Nicholas A Bokulich', 'Jai Ram Rideout', 'Evguenia Kopylova', 'Evan Bolyen', 'Jessica Patnode', 'Zach Ellett', 'Daniel McDonald', 'Benjamin Wolfe', 'Corinne F Maurice', 'Rachel J Dutton', 'Peter J Turnbaugh', 'Rob Knight', 'J Gregory Caporaso'], u'2015-07-10', u'Background: Taxonomic classification of marker-gene (i.e., amplicon) sequences represents an important step for molecular identification of microorganisms.\nResults: We present three advances in our ability to assign and interpret taxonomic classifications of short marker gene sequences: two new methods for taxonomy assignment, which reduce runtime up to two-fold and achieve high-precision genus-level assignments; an evaluation of classification methods that highlights differences in performance with different marker genes and at different levels of taxonomic resolution; and an extensible framework for evaluating and optimizing new classification methods, which we hope will serve as a model for standardized and reproducible bioinformatics methods evaluations.\nConclusions: Our new methods are accessible in QIIME 1.9.0, and our evaluation framework will support ongoing optimization of classification methods to complement rapidly evolving short-amplicon sequencing and bioinformatics technologies. Static versions of all of the analysis notebooks generated with this framework, which contain all code and analysis results, can be viewed at http://bit.ly/srta-012 .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/934/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Medicine, New York University Langone Medical Center', u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Pediatrics, University of California, San Diego', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Computer Science, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'BioFrontiers Institute, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'FAS Center for Systems Biology, Harvard University', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Microbiome and Disease Tolerance Centre, McGill University', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of California San Francisco']]
[u"Improving Brill's tagger lexical and transformation rule for Afaan Oromo language", ['Abraham G Ayana'], u'2015-07-10', u'Natural Language Processing (NLP) refers to Human-like language processing which reveals that it is a discipline within the field of Artificial Intelligence (AI). However, the ultimate goal of research on Natural Language Processing is to parse and understand language, which is not fully achieved yet. For this reason, much research in NLP has focused on intermediate tasks that make sense of some of the structure inherent in language without requiring complete understanding. One such task is part-of-speech tagging, or simply tagging. Lack of standard part of speech tagger for Afaan Oromo will be the main obstacle for researchers in the area of machine translation, spell checkers, dictionary compilation and automatic sentence parsing and constructions. Even though several works have been done in POS tagging for Afaan Oromo, the performance of the tagger is not sufficiently improved yet. Hence,the aim of this thesis is to improve Brill\u2019s tagger lexical and transformation rule for Afaan Oromo POS tagging with sufficiently large training corpus. Accordingly, Afaan Oromo literatures on grammar and morphology are reviewed to understand nature of the language and also to identify possible tagsets. As a result, 26 broad tagsets were identified and 17,473 words from around 1100 sentences containing 6750 distinct words were tagged for training and testing purpose. From which 258 sentences are taken from the previous work. Since there is only a few ready made standard corpuses, the manual tagging process to prepare corpus for this work was challenging and hence, it is recommended that a standard corpus is prepared. Transformation-based Error driven learning are adapted for Afaan Oromo part of speech tagging. Different experiments are conducted for the rule based approach taking 20% of the whole data for testing. A comparison with the previously adapted Brill\u2019s Tagger made. The previously adapted Brill\u2019s Tagger shows an accuracy of 80.08% whereas the improved Brill\u2019s Tagger result shows an accuracy of 95.6% which has an improvement of 15.52%. Hence, it is found that the size of the training corpus, the rule generating system in the lexical rule learner, and moreover, using Afaan Oromo HMM tagger as initial state tagger have a significant effect on the improvement of the tagger.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1225/', ['Computational Linguistics', 'Natural Language and Speech'], [u'Department of Geographic Information Science, Hawassa University']]
[u'Urban/rural disparities in cancer incidence in New York State, 2008-2012', ['Timothy Conwell', 'Francis P Boscoe'], u'2015-07-09', u'We measured urban/rural disparities in cancer incidence in New York State using a data set with more than 500,000 tumors diagnosed among New York State residents between 2008-2012 geocoded to the census tract level. Using poisson regression, we computed the site and stage-specific relative risks of cancer by level of urbanicity after adjustment for age, sex, socioeconomic status and race/ethnicity. 18 of the 23 cancer sites analyzed showed some form of significant association between cancer incidence and urbanicity, although the risk differences were generally small. Differences in risk of 50% or more were seen for stomach, liver, distant-stage uterine, and thyroid cancers (each higher in New York City than in rural areas); esophagus, distant-stage kidney, and distant-stage lung (each lower in New York City than in rural areas); and distant-stage prostate cancer (higher in rural areas).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1224/', ['Epidemiology', 'Public Health'], [u'Grinnell College', u'New York State Cancer Registry, Department of Health']]
[u'Promoting active learning out-of-class via online \u201cstudy questions\u201d leads to higher than expected exam scores in General Biology', ['Susan I Gibson'], u'2015-07-09', u'A rising need for workers in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) fields has fueled interest in improving teaching within STEM disciplines. Numerous studies have demonstrated the benefits of active learning approaches on student learning outcomes. However, many of these studies have been conducted in experimental, rather than real-life class, settings. In addition, most of these studies have focused on in-class active learning exercises. This study tested the effects of a form of out-of-class active learning on exam performance for General Biology students at the University of Minnesota. An online database of 1,020 multiple-choice questions covering material from the first half of the course was generated, with feedback provided for 73% of the questions. Students in seven course sections (with an average of approximately 265 students per section) were given unlimited access to the online study questions. These students made extensive use of the online questions, with students answering an average of approximately 1,323 questions (94.5 questions per lecture) covering material from the half of the semester for which the questions were available. The extent to which access to the online study questions improved student learning outcomes was assessed by comparing the performance on exam questions of students in the seven course sections with access to the online study questions with the performance of students in course sections without access to the online study questions. Student performance was analyzed for a total of 89 different exams questions that were not included in the study questions, but that covered the same material covered by the study questions. Each of these 89 questions was used on one to five (average of 2.3) exams administered to students in course sections that had access to the online study questions and on three to 77 (average of 24.8) exams administered to students in sections that lacked access to the online study questions. Data from over 1,800 students in sections with access to the online study questions show that those students scored a statistically significant average of 6.6 percentage points higher on the exam questions analyzed than students in sections without access to the study questions. This difference was greater than the average amount necessary to raise students\u2019 exam grades by one grade (e.g. from a \u201cB-\u201c to a \u201cB\u201d). In addition, there was a higher correlation between number of questions answered and success on exam questions on material related to the study questions than between number of questions answered and success on exam questions on material unrelated to the study questions. The online study question system analyzed in this work required substantial effort to set up in the first year, but required minimal effort to maintain in subsequent years and was effective in significantly raising average exam scores for even very large course sections.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1223/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Plant Biology, University of Minnesota -  Twin Cities']]
[u'Haplotypes of \u201cCandidatus Liberibacter europaeus\u201d also separate by geography and host species', ['Warrick R Nelson'], u'2015-07-09', u'\u201cCandidatus Liberibacter europaeus\u201d (Leu) is one of six currently known Liberibacter species. It is known primarily from pear and related species across Europe, and from Scotch broom and its associated psyllids in New Zealand (introduced from Britain). The psyllids were introduced to New Zealand as a biocontrol agent for broom and it is thought the bacterium may have been introduced as an endosymbiont of the psyllids. No symptoms in apple or pear trees have been reported, but mild symptoms can occur in broom. 16S and 16S\u201323S intergenic spacer region DNA sequences of this species are available from GenBank. Analysis of these sequences and associated ecological descriptions indicates the occurrence of two haplotypes, LeuA and LeuB, defined not only genetically but also by geographic range as well as by plant/psyllid host species composition. Liberibacter species are new to science and haplotype identifications enable historical accounts of relationships and spread to be generated.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/649/', ['Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Microbiology', 'Plant Science'], [u'The New Zealand Institute for Plant and Food Research Limited']]
[u'Report on open access publishing at the College of Education, Health and Human Development, University of Canterbury, New Zealand', ['Arindam Basu'], u'2015-07-08', u'Open access publications are those where following the publication itself, the publishers allow anyone to access the article or publication to read, or download without any restriction. It is believed that publishing in open access journals can increase the visibility of the publication, although uncertainties prevail. In a bid to improve the PBRF ratings, the College research committee in its monthly meeting agreed to organise an Open Access Seminar in the college. The seminar was organised on 4th of June, 2015, Thursday. Four speakers were identified. They were: Peter Lund and Anton Angelo from the University of Canterbury Central Library and Researcn Unit, Peter Binfield from PeerJ, and Viriginia Barbour from Australian Open Access Support Group. The topics of the seminar included a brief introduction to open access publishing and the state of the scenario in NZ and Australia and exploration of the issues around green and gold open access, and future directions as to what can be done to increase participation in open access. The seminar was also designed to be an open to all, and free flowing discussion. This seminar followed a format of webinar and on the spot presentations, questions and answers. A web based page was set up using the openly accessible Adobe Connect "room" where participants could connect even if they were not able to attend in person. Dr Binfield and Barbour were overseas speakers and they connected using the webinar (Adobe Connect). Mr Lund and Angelo were local speakers and they came to the meeting hall directly and spoke. A resource website was set up and the event was recorded for later viewing. The event was publicised across the university and through online channels. About 30 individuals attended the meeting in person, and ten participants joined online. Mr Lund introduced the concept of open access at the University of Canterbury, and introduced the concepts of gold and green open access; Mr Angelo introduced the concepts of creative commons, and Drs Binfield and Barbour discussed models of open access and the situation in Australia. The floor was open for questions, and clarifications and discussions from the audience participation. Key takeaway lessons from the seminar included: at the University of Canterbury, scholars are active in publishing in Open Access channels; green open access is popular in Australia and in New Zealand; newer channels and novel publishing models uitlising the Open Access formats are emerging and becoming popular; while some reservations about quality in open access exist, quality of peer review in OA journals were at par.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1221/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy'], [u'School of Health Sciences, University of Canterbury']]
[u'On the impact of sampling frequency on software energy measurements', ['Ruben Saborido', 'Venera Venera Arnaoudova', 'Giovanni Beltrame', 'Foutse Khomh', 'Giuliano Antoniol'], u'2015-07-08', u'Energy consumption is a major concern when developing and evolving mobile applications. The user wishes to access fast and powerful mobile applications, which is usually in contrast to optimized battery life and heat generation. The software engineering community have acknowledged the relevance of the problem and researchers are investigating ways to reduce energy consumption, for example by examining which library, device configuration, and applications parameters should be used to promote long battery life. We conjecture that these studies are at the border between hardware and software and we must be careful on how the energy consumption is measured and how the energy consumption is attributed to methods and libraries.To the best of our knowledge, no previous work investigates how much energy and power consumption is due to high frequency events missed when sampling at low frequencies such as 10 kHz and verified the error at the precision of method level. Low frequency sampling is a rough approximation that hinders the understanding of fine grain details: the real picture of energy consumption as well as the root causes are missed. This has profound implications on the choice of methods to evolve or components to replace.In this paper, we propose an approach for accurate measurements of the energy consumption of mobile applications. We apply the proposed approach to assess the energy consumption of 21 mobile, closed source, applications and four open source Android applications.We show that by sampling at 10 kHz one may expect a median error of 8%, however, such error may be as high as 50% for short fast executing methods. Finally, we revisit a previous approach that estimates the energy consumption of methods based on execution time and found that it can miss as much as 84% of the energy, with a median of 30%.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1219/', ['Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing', 'Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Software Cost-effective Change and Evolution Research Lab, Polytechnique Montr\xe9al', u'Department of Computer Science, The University of Texas at Dallas', u'MIST Lab, Polytechnique Montr\xe9al', u'Software Analytics and Technologies Lab, Polytechnique Montr\xe9al']]
[u'Protofeathers were likely to have existed within the common ancestor of dinosaurs', ['Chan-gyu Yun'], u'2015-07-08', u'In this paper, I comment on Barrett et al. (2015) "Evolution of dinosaur epidermal structures". Though the original authors made some very interesting results, the conclusions made by them are likely influenced by inappropriate or incorrect assumptions such as very little preserved skin fragments represent whole body covering or dinosaurian integumentary structures might represent a degraded collagen fibres. Therefore, their result might represent small size of current datas or preservational bias rather than actual evolutionary history of dinosaurian feathers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1220/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Yeonsu High School']]
[u'Global drivers of species variation in mobilized point-occurrence information', ['Carsten Meyer', 'Walter Jetz', 'Robert P Guralnick', 'Susanne A Fritz', 'Holger Kreft'], u'2015-07-07', u'Despite the central role of species distributions in ecology and conservation, occurrence information remains geographically and taxonomically incomplete and biased. Numerous socio-economic and ecological drivers of uneven record collection and mobilization among species have been suggested, but the generality of their effects remains untested. We develop scale-independent metrics of range coverage and geographical record bias, and apply them to 2.8M point-occurrence records of 3,625 mammal species to evaluate 13 putative drivers of species-level variation in data availability. We find that data limitations are mainly linked to range size and shape, and the geography of socio-economic conditions. Surprisingly, species attributes related to detection and collection probabilities, such as body size or diurnality, are much weaker predictors of the amount and range coverage of available records. Our results highlight the need to prioritize range-restricted species and to address the key socio-economic drivers of data bias in data mobilization efforts and distribution modeling.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1218/', ['Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Biodiversity, Macroecology and Conservation Biogeography Group, Faculty of Forest Sciences and Forest Ecology, University of Goettingen', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University', u'Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida', u'Senckenberg Biodiversity & Climate Research Centre (BiK-F), Senckenberg Gesellschaft f\xfcr Naturforschung & Goethe University Frankfurt']]
[u'A Gauge model-based analysis of: Reduction(s) in osmolyte infusion interval and its effects on the aggregate measure of systemic failure for a unicellular system', ['Imadol V Jeff-Eke'], u'2015-07-07', u'This is a companion to A Gauge model for analysis of Biological systems. Here we reconcile the gauge model with a \u201creal\u201d system, which in this case is a unicellular system. We address effects of infusion of free osmolytes into an intracellular space of interest, and how changes to the frequency of infusion affects the aggregate measure of systemic failure. We also describe limitations to the functionality of the system that may stem from a limited availability of resources. We end by introducing a theoretical problem related to how well the system can tolerate random and extreme changes to the frequency of osmolytes presented via infusion.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1163/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Cell Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Morehouse School of Medicine']]
[u'A simple and general method for accounting for phylogenetic uncertainty via Rubin\u2019s rules in comparative analysis', ['Shinichi Nakagawa', 'Pierre de Villemereuil'], u'2015-07-06', u'Phylogenetic comparative methods (PCMs), especially ones based on linear models, have played a central role in understanding species\u2019 trait evolution. These methods, however, usually assume that phylogenetic trees are known without error or uncertainty, but this assumption is most likely incorrect. So far, Markov chain Monte Carlo, MCMC-based Bayesian methods have successfully been deployed to account for such phylogenetic uncertainty in PCMs. Yet, the use of these methods seems to have been limited, probably due to difficulties in their implementation. Here, we propose an approach with which phylogenetic uncertainty is incorporated in a simple, readily implementable and reliable manner. Our approach uses Rubin\u2019s rules, which are an integral part of a standard multiple imputation procedure, often employed to recover missing data. In our case, we see the true phylogenetic tree as a missing piece of data, and apply Rubin\u2019s rules to amalgamate parameter estimates from a number of models using a set of phylogenetic trees (e.g. a Bayesian posterior distribution of phylogenetic trees). Using a simulation study, we demonstrate that our approach using Rubin\u2019s rules performs better in accounting for phylogenetic uncertainty than alternative methods such as MCMC-based Bayesian and Akaike information criterion, AIC-based model averaging approaches; that is, on average, our approach has the best 95% confidence/credible interval coverage among all. A unique property of the multiple imputation procedure is that the index, named \u2018relative efficiency\u2019, could be used to quantify the number of trees required for incorporating phylogenetic uncertainty. Thus, by using the relative efficiency, we show the required tree number is surprisingly small (~50 trees) at least in our simulation. In addition to these advantages above, our approach could be combined seamlessly with PCMs that utilize multiple imputation to recover missing data. Given the ubiquity of missing data, it is likely that the use of the multiple imputation procedure with Rubin\u2019s rules will be popular to deal with phylogenetic uncertainty as well as missing data in comparative data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1216/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Taxonomy', 'Statistics'], [u'Evolution & Ecology Research Centre and School of Biological, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales', u'Laboratoire d\u2019E\u0301cologie Alpine (LECA-UMR CNRS 5553), Universite\u0301 Joseph Fourier']]
[u'A rapid assessment of logging effects on bird species in Kelantan forests areas, Malaysia', ['Saber Ghasemi'], u'2015-07-06', u'Kelantan Forest Areas (KFA) are known to be the major portion of Taman Negara National Park, and it has been identified as an Environmentally Sensitive Area (ESA) rank 1 under Malaysia\u2019s National Physical Plan (NPP). Since access to the forest areas is often lacking and vital forest information are often inadequate, this study aims to find a baseline data for macro EIA of KFA. This study consists of rapid assessment of logging effects on bird species. Based on the study, Kelantan forests are divided into (1) lowland evergreen rain forest, (2) lower mountain rain forest and (3) upper mountain rain forest, using general vegetation forms. A total of 321 species of birds were recorded in KFA using data collection from related agencies, Mist-netting Method, Transect survey Method (Distance Sampling Method; Point Count Method) and Secondary data. Out of this number, 220, 49, 7 and 1 species were falls under totally protected, nearly threatened, vulnerable and critically endangered categories, respectively. Out of the total recorded species, a total of 155, 292 and 128 species were recorded in lowland evergreen rain forest reserves, lower mountain rain forest reserve and upper Kelantan mountain rain forest respectively. The blue-banded kingfisher Alcedo euryzonia in the list of Kelantan birds was fall under critically endangered status. A total of 83 species were observed commonly in 3 kinds of habitat, 20 species were recorded only in Kelantan lowland forest reserve, which species Jambu fruit-dove was fall under nearly threatened. Furthermore, a total of 5 species were recorded just in upper mountain Kelantan rain forest. This study considered that Kelantan forests could be one of the `megadiversity\u2019 places in Malaysia, and effects of logging on wildlife species as well as birds were cleared.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1215/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Environmental Science Faculty, Islamic Azad University, Bandar Abbas Branch']]
[u'CAUSA 2.0: accurate and consistent evolutionary analysis of proteins using codon and amino acid unified sequence alignments', ['Xiaolong Wang', 'Chao Yang'], u'2015-07-06', u'Multiple sequence alignment (MSA) is widely used to reveal structural and functional changes leading to genetic differences among species, and to reconstruct evolutionary histories of related genes, proteins and genomes. Traditionally, proteins and their coding sequences (CDSs) are aligned and analyzed separately, but often drastically different conclusions were drawn on a same set of data. Here we present a new alignment strategy, Codon and Amino Acid Unified Sequence Alignment (CAUSA) 2.0, which aligns proteins and their coding sequences simultaneously. CAUSA 2.0 optimizes the alignment of CDSs at both codon and amino acid level efficiently. Theoretical analysis showed that CAUSA 2.0 enhances the entropy information content of MSA. Empirical data analysis demonstrated that CAUSA 2.0 is more accurate and consistent than nucleotide, protein or codon level alignments. CAUSA 2.0 locates in-frame indels more accurately, makes the alignment of coding sequences biologically more significant, and reveals several novel mutation mechanisms that relate to some genetic diseases. CAUSA 2.0 is available in website www.DNAPlusPro.com .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1214/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Bioinformatics and Biotechnology, Ocean University of China']]
[u'Relationship of clinical service intensity to hospitalist clinician\u2010educator evaluations by internal medicine clerkship students', ['Robert Robinson'], u'2015-07-06', u'BACKGROUND: Hospitalists play a significant role in medical student education and have been shown to be satisfactory and effective teachers in several observational studies. We hypothesized that the clinical productivity demands placed on academic hospitalists may influence medical student evaluations, which has the potential to impact the promotion and retention of hospitalist faculty. METHODS: Retrospective review with correlation analysis of clinical productivity and medical student evaluations of faculty during the 2009 to 2013 academic years for the hospitalists at SIU\u2010SOM. RESULTS: A total of 32 sets of annual learner evaluations and clinical intensity data were reviewed, representing data for 18 individual hospitalists. Significant correlations between long term measures of service intensity such as annual work RVUs, total patient encounters, and duty days with lower teaching evaluations in many areas were identified. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that medical student evaluations of hospitalist faculty are negatively influenced by higher clinical service intensity measured in terms of annual work RVUs, patient encounters, and duty days when measured on an annual basis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1213/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine']]
[u'Samples and data accessibility in research biobanks: an explorative survey', ['Marco Capocasa', 'Paolo Anagnostou', "Flavio D'Abramo", 'Giulia Matteucci', 'Valentina Dominici', 'Giovanni Destro Bisol', 'Fabrizio Rufo'], u'2015-07-06', u'Biobanks hold human biological samples and/or data giving a crucial contribution to the progress of biomedical research. However, the effective and efficient exploitation of these resources depends on their accessibility. In fact, making bio-resources promptly accessible to all, can favour collaboration among research groups as well as multidisciplinarity. Although this has become a rather common belief, several laboratories still apply secrecy and withholding of samples and data. In this study we conducted a questionnaire based survey in order to investigate sample and data accessibility in research biobanks operating all over the world. 46 out of the 238 contacted biobanks have decided to participate. Most of them provide permission to access their samples (95.7%) and data (85.4%), but free and unconditioned accessibility seems not to be a common practice. The analysis of the biobanks guidelines regarding the accessibility of their resources reveal the importance of three aspects: (i) request for applicants to explain what they would like to do with the required resources; (ii) the role of funding, public or private, in the establishment of fruitful collaborations between biobanks and research labs; (iii) request of co-authorship in order to give access to their data. These results suggest that economic and academic aspects are involved in determining the extent of sharing of samples and data stored in biobanks. As a second step of this study, we investigated the reasons behind the high diversity of the requirements for accessing to biobanks\u2019 resources. The analysis of informative answers suggested that the different modalities of resource accessibility seem to be largely influenced by both social context and legislation of the countries where biobanks operate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1212/', ['Ethical Issues', 'Science Policy'], [u'Sapienza University of Rome, Istituto Italiano di Antropologia', u'Department of Environmental Biology, Sapienza University of Rome', u'Charit\xe9 Comprehensive Cancer Center']]
[u'Modeling C. elegans as a thermodynamic stable system', ['Joshua Elkington'], u'2015-07-04', u'The nematode, C. elegans is a useful organism to study aging due to its relatively short lifespan and genetic tractability. The lifespan of a population of worms can be easily determined. Under normal conditions worms can live up to 2 weeks, and if they are under heat shock, most worms die within 2 days. In order to investigate the effects of drug concentration and temperature on an organism ability to survive, a model based on Gibbs Free Energy was used to determine under what conditions is survival rate increased or decreased. Furthermore, along with wildtype, N2, worms, a small RNA mutant, eri-6 (mg379), was studied to try to understand the role of small RNA pathways in aging and stress response. The ultimate goal of the model is to prove that the types of chemical reactions within an organism depend on temperature and substrate concentration. Worm lifespan was used as a marker for chemical reactions within an organism. Differences in aging may be a result of different types of chemistry occurring in an organism. For example a long-lived species may used redox reactions more than a short-lived species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1211/', ['Genetics'], [u'Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Harvard University']]
[u'Overt prosody and plausibility as cues to relative-clause attachment in English spoken sentences', ['Daniela Zahn', 'Christoph Scheepers'], u'2015-07-03', u'We investigated the interplay between overt prosodic cues and semantic cues on the structural interpretation of spoken sentences that permit either high- or low-attachment of a final relative clause. Prosodic cues were manipulated via the presence or absence of a strong prosodic boundary before the relative clause, and semantic cues were induced via plausibility restrictions (e.g., the servant of the actress who was {serving tea / very famous}). In the first two experiments, each type of cue was studied in isolation while keeping influences of the relevant other cue constant. Experiment 1 employed a standard off-line comprehension task and suggested that prosodic cues were not as effective as semantic cues in biasing participants\u2019 attachment preferences. However, using a more implicit (and less biased) structural priming task, Experiment 2 showed that our overt prosody manipulation was actually no less effective than plausibility in biasing relative-clause attachments. Experiment 3 was, again, based on structural priming; here, the two factors were fully crossed to investigate the interaction between overt prosody and plausibility. This experiment showed that the two types of cues interact in a complex way, suggesting that (a) the amount of surprisal associated with cueing a generally dispreferred structure and (b) the type of revision necessary to resolve the ambiguity both play a major role in determining relative clause attachments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1210/', ['Computational Linguistics', 'Natural Language and Speech'], [u'Institute of Neuroscience and Psychology, University of Glasgow']]
[u'Spectrum of tablet computer use by medical students and residents at an academic medical center', ['Robert Robinson'], u'2015-07-03', u'Introduction: The value of tablet computer use in medical education is an area of considerable interest, with preliminary investigations showing that the majority of medical trainees feel that tablet computers added value to the curriculum. This study investigated potential differences in tablet computer use between medical students and resident physicians. Materials & Methods: Data collection for this survey was accomplished with an anonymous online questionnaire shared with the medical students and residents at Southern Illinois University School of Medicine (SIU-SOM) in July and August of 2012. Results: There were 76 medical student responses (26% response rate) and 66 resident/fellow responses to this survey (21% response rate). Residents/fellows were more likely to use tablet computers several times daily than medical students (32% vs 20%, p = 0.035). The most common reported uses were for accessing medical reference applications (46%), e-Books (45%), and board study (32%). Residents were more likely than students to use a tablet computer to access an electronic medical record (41% vs 21%, p = 0.010), review radiology images (27% vs 12%, p = 0.019), and enter patient care orders (26% vs 3%, p < 0.001). Discussion: This study shows a high prevalence and frequency of tablet computer use among physicians in training at this academic medical center. Most residents and students use tablet computers to access medical references, e-books, and to study for board exams. Residents were more likely to use tablet computers to complete clinical tasks. Conclusions: Tablet computer use among medical students and resident physicians was common in this survey. All learners used tablet computers for point of care references and board study. Resident physicians were more likely to use tablet computers to access the EMR, enter patient care orders, and review radiology studies. This difference is likely due to the differing educational and professional demands placed on resident physicians. Further study is needed better understand how tablet computers and other mobile devices may assist in medical education and patient care.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/977/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine']]
[u'Integrating motion sensing technology in radiographic examination', ['Christopher Lai', 'Chun-Fai Ellis Li'], u'2015-07-03', u'Background: In the daily operation of X-ray machine, radiation technologists need to have direct close contact with patients with known or potential infectious disease, resulting in environmental contamination by pathogens if hand hygiene was not properly observed. In the last 15 decades, the method for inputting computer commands has evolved from using keyboard, mouse and to touchscreen and a touch-less method: motion sensing technology. Therefore in the present study, we aim to explore the feasibility of using motion-sensing technology to replace several computer-inputting commands that were frequently used during radiographic examination in order to reduce the chance of pathogen contamination to the radiographic equipment and accessories.\nMethod:  In this study, two sets of gesture commands that can encompass the most frequently used computer commands for image manipulation and x-ray acquisition during radiographic examination were carefully designed. Then, the proposed gesture commands were detected by the Leap Motion Controller using motion sensing technology under a controlled experimental environment. Using Leap Motion Diagnostic Visualizer, the recognition performance, practicability and feasibility of the gesture commands were assessed by 4 different trained operators.\nResults: In our proposed gesture commands, the horizontal movement of the thumb (when performing right click and exposure release command) and the vertical movement of the index finger (when performing left click, scrolling up and scrolling down command) were the key sensing component that govern and trigger the gesture command. In general, the magnitude of these key sensing fingertip movement was consistent within an operator, but was varies from operator to operator because each of the operator was allowed to achieve the proposed gesture commands with certain extent of flexibility.\nDiscussion and conclusion: Motion-sensing technology could practicably for image manipulation and making X-ray exposure. As a high variability exists among different operators, the application of an individual operator dependent threshold value rather than a single threshold value in the magnitude of key sensing fingertip movement of gesture commands is recommended. Also, although the implementation motion sensing technology in radiographic examination may inevitably slow down the examination throughput, it could possibly reduce pathogen contamination to the radiographic equipment and accessories, in particular under nosocomial outbreak of epidemic diseases.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1209/', ['Bioengineering', 'Kinesiology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Department of Health Technology and Informatics, The Hong Kong Polytechnic University']]
[u'Goal-oriented evaluation of species distribution models\u2019 accuracy and precision: True Skill Statistic profile and uncertainty maps', ['Alejandro Ruete', 'Gerardo C Leynaud'], u'2015-07-03', u'The use of species distribution models\u2019 (SDM) is limited by its performance in terms of accuracy, precision, or the spatial distribution of model errors. Despite the wide acceptance of some standard statistics used to evaluate SDM, there is currently a strong on-going debate as to their use. The \u201carea under the curve\u201d (AUC) is a popular measure used to evaluate SDMs; however, it does not provide complete information about model accuracy. The maximum True Skill Statistic (TSS) is another statistic that is gaining acceptance. However, evaluations of a model\u2019s accuracy solely based on this statistic may also be misleading. We investigate the use of alternative methods to evaluate the performance of SDMs, to objectively compare among different modelling approaches. We evaluate the performance of SDMs fitted to simulated and real data by contrasting model predictions to additional validation datasets. We propose visualising TSS scores over the whole detection threshold range (TSS profile). We show how models with similarly good performance according to AUC, present very different results and may serve to different purposes. Also, a high maximum TSS may not guarantee accurate predictions and should be accompanied by the threshold where the maximum is reached (t*). We observe that the higher t* the better predicted observations correlate with confirmed observations. Also, SDM predictions should be accompanied with the corresponding uncertainty map to avoid misleading conclusions. Too high or too widely spread uncertainty on such maps would question the overall accuracy of the model. Whether the model is intended to detect all potential observation sites (sensitive model) or to accurately predict where confirmed observations could be found (specific model) sets a different performance targets to be achieved by the model. The approach proposed helps to discern which SDM may best suit the intended goals. Furthermore, the TSS profile helps i) to evaluate the overall performance of SDMs and compare among them, ii) to identify the main source of error, and iii) to select a detection threshold depending on the maps intended use.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1208/', ['Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Ecology Department, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences', u'Centro de Zoolog\xeda Aplicada, Facultad de Ciencias Exactas F\xedsicas y Naturales, and Instituto de Diversidad y Ecolog\xeda Animal (CONICET - UNC). Universidad Nacional de C\xf3rdoba']]
[u'A Gauge model for analysis of biological systems', ['Imadol V. Jeff-Eke'], u'2015-07-03', u'For this initial work, we shall focus on introducing a biological model for utilization [mainly] as a descriptive framework on which future analyses will be based. The model includes a definition of a biological systems as a composite of properties that occupy defined states. We also introduce a concept of failure; in addition to a hypothetical mechanism by which failure occurs. We then define a functional response as a means of preventing attainment of failure state. We also define such functional responses as properties of the system, in addition to interactions between these systemic properties. We discuss determinants of the rate of- and measures of systemic failure. We conclude with two assumptions on the principal significance of systemic phenomena.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1148/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Morehouse School of Medicine']]
[u'The iterated Data Rate Theorem for unstable biological dynamics', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2015-07-03', u'Counterintuitively, unstable control systems can allow extremely rapid responses that may be strongly selected by evolutionary process. Application of an information bottleneck iteration to the Data Rate Theorem -- taking the minimum necessary rate of control information as a distortion measure -- leads to a diffusion dynamic for onset of sudden failure in such systems via the necessary convexity of the Rate Distortion Function. Imposition of maintenance mechanisms seems a necessary consequence, but those too are subject to deterioration by aging or pathological exposures. In sum, a fairly simple control theory model that iterates the Data Rate Theorem provides deep insight across a wide sweep of diseases and the chronic dysfunctions of senescence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1207/', ['Mathematical Biology', 'Epidemiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Influence of occupational dysfunction on the psychological problem in healthcare workers: A study using structural equation modeling', ['Mutsumi Teraoka', 'Makoto Kyougoku'], u'2015-07-02', u'Purpose: This study identified the effect of occupational dysfunction on psychological factors of stress response, burnout syndrome, and depression in healthcare workers.\nMethod: Three cross sectional studies were conducted to assess the following relations: 1) occupational dysfunction on stress response (n = 468), 2) occupational dysfunction on burnout syndrome (n = 1142), and 3) occupational dysfunction on depression (n = 687). Personal characteristics were collected through a questionnaire (such as age, gender, and job category, opportunities for refreshment, time spent on leisure activities, and work relationships) as well as the Classification and Assessment of Occupational Dysfunction (CAOD). Furthermore, study 1 included the Stress Response Scale-18 (SRS-18), study 2 used the Japanese Burnout Scale (JBS), and study 3 employed the Center for Epidemiological Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). The Kolmogorov\u2013Smirnov test, confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), exploratory factor analysis (EFA), and path analysis of structural equation modeling (SEM) analysis were used in all of the studies. EFA and CFA were used to measure structural validity of four assessments; CAOD, SRS-18, JBS, and CES-D. For examination of a potential covariate, we assessed the correlation of the total score of CAOD and personal factors in all studies. Moreover, direct and indirect effects of occupational dysfunction on stress response (Study 1), burnout syndrome (Study 2), and depression (Study 3) were also analyzed.\nResults: CAOD had 16 items and 5 factors. SRS-18 had 18 items and 3 factors, JBS had 17 items and 3 factors, CES-D had 20 items and 4 factors. All studies found that there were significant correlations between the CAOD total score and the personal factor that included opportunities for refreshment, time spent on leisure activities, and work relationships (p<0.01). The causal sequence model results suggest that the classification of occupational dysfunction had positive causal effects on the stress response (RMSEA = 0.058, CFI = 0.951, and TLI = 0.947), burnout syndrome (RMSEA = 0.074, CFI = 0.922, and TLI = 0.915), and depression (RMSEA=0.059, CFI=0.926, TLI=0.920). Moreover, the positive effect of external covariates include opportunities for refreshment, time spent on leisure activities, and work relationships on occupational dysfunction.\nConclusion: The classification of occupational dysfunction indicated a possibility of increase in the stress response, burnout syndrome, and depression in healthcare workers. Furthermore, occupational dysfunction affected personal factors including opportunities for refreshment, time spent on leisure activities, and work relationships. Therefore, it is necessary to adopt occupational therapy strategies to prevent this problem.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1206/', ['Epidemiology', 'Nursing', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Health Sciences, KIBI International University']]
[u'The blurred line between form and process: a comparison of stream classification frameworks', ['Alan Kasprak', 'Nate Hough-Snee', 'Tim Beechie', 'Nicolaas Bouwes', 'Gary J. Brierley', 'Reid Camp', 'Kirstie A. Fryirs', 'Hiroo Imaki', 'Martha L. Jensen', "Gary O'Brien", 'David L. Rosgen', 'Joseph M. Wheaton'], u'2015-07-02', u'Stream classification provides a means to understand the diversity and distribution of channels and floodplains that occur across a landscape while drawing linkages between geomorphic form and process. Accordingly, stream classification is frequently employed as a watershed planning, management, and restoration tool. At the same time, there has been intense debate and criticism of particular frameworks, on the grounds that these frameworks classify stream reaches based largely on their physical form, rather than direct measurements of the hydrogeomorphic processes operating therein. Despite this critical debate surrounding stream classifications, and their ongoing use in applied watershed management, direct comparisons of channel classification frameworks are rare. Here we apply four classification frameworks that contain a range of form- and process-based methods within a watershed of high conservation interest in the Columbia River Basin, U.S.A. We compare the results of the River Styles Framework, Natural Channel Classification, Rosgen Classification System, and a channel form-based statistical classification at 33 field-monitored sites. For stream network-based frameworks (Natural Channel Classification and River Styles) we compare classification outputs across the entire Middle Fork John Day Watershed. We found that the four frameworks consistently classified reach types into similar groups based on each reach or segment\u2019s dominant hydrogeomorphic elements. Where divergence in classified channel types occurred, differences can be attributed to the (a) spatial scale of input data used, (b) the requisite metrics and their order in completing a framework\u2019s decision tree and/or (c) whether the framework attempts to classify current or historic channel form. The relative agreement between frameworks indicates that criticism of classification based simply on whether a classification contains form-based measurements, devalues each framework\u2019s relative merits. These form-based criticisms may also ignore the geomorphic tenet that channel form reflects formative hydrogeomorphic processes across a given landscape.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/885/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Watershed Sciences, Utah State University', u'Department of Watershed Sciences and Ecology Center, Utah State University', u'National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration', u'Eco Logical Research', u'School of Environment, University of Auckland', u'Department of Environmental Sciences, Macquarie University', u'Pacific Spatial Solutions', u'Wildland Hydrology']]
[u'Conceptual and methodological issues in comparative neuroscience and psychology: a reassessment', ['Romain Willemet'], u'2015-07-01', u'By analysing species differences in brain and behaviour, comparative neuroscience & psychology can help to understand the nature and mechanisms of behaviour. The task is enormously complex due to the number of dimensions onto which species can differ. In addition, it is shown here that the approaches, methods and concepts used in these fields contain numerous issues. Many of these issues result from the persistence of misconceptions on the evolution of brain and behaviour; despite increasing evidence that more complex approaches and concepts should be considered. Most of the issues discussed here have been presented in a previous publication (Willemet, 2013, doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00396) but have not been addressed by recent literature. They are restated here in detail, using as a reference a recent paper resulting from the cooperative work of many researchers in the field (Maclean et al. 2014, doi: 10.1073/pnas.1323533111). The factors responsible for the evolution of brain structure size are reviewed, with particular emphasis on the adjustment effect recently introduced (Willemet, 2015, doi: 10.3389/fnana.2015.00084:). The traditional interpretation of the concept of allometry is critically evaluated, and an alternative is discussed. It is also argued that the lack of consideration towards emotional, motivational and attentional factors constitutes a major obstacle to understanding the evolution of behaviour. A dataset on the neuroecology of repertoire size in songbirds is analyzed using the framework discussed here. It is concluded that until the issues detailed here are addressed, progress in our understanding of the evolution of brain and behaviour will be undermined.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1205/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Unaffiliated']]
[u'The atherosclerosis of the sinus node artery is associated with an increased history of supra-ventricular arrhythmias: A retrospective study on 541 standard coronary angiograms', ['Michele M Ciulla', 'Matteo Astuti', 'Stefano Carugo'], u'2015-07-01', u'BACKGROUND: The ischemic damage of the sinus node (SN) is a well known cause of cardiac arrhythmias and can be a consequence of any flow abnormality in the sinus node artery (SNA). Accordingly we aimed this retrospective study to: 1. evaluate the suitability of the standard coronary angiography to study the SNA and 2. determine if the percentage of subjects with a positive retrospective history of supra-ventricular arrhythmias (SVA) differs in patients with normal and diseased SNA ascertained at the time of coronary angiography. METHODS and RESULTS: out of the 541 coronary angiograms reviewed the SNA was visible for its entire course in 486 cases (89.8%). It was found to arise from the right side of the coronary circulation in 266 cases (54.7%) slightly more often than from the left, 219 cases (45.1%). One patient had 2 distinct SNA arising from either side of the coronary circulation. For the second objective we studied the 333 patients with: a. coronary artery disease (CAD), b. properly evaluable SNA and c. complete clinical history available. In 51 (15.3%) a SNA disease was found, the 41.2% of them had a positive SVA history, mainly atrial fibrillation (AF), whereas only the 7.4% of patients with a positive history of SVA could be found in the non-SNA diseased. This difference was statistically significant (P< 0.001). CONCLUSIONS: 1- The evaluation of the SNA is feasible in clinical practice during a standard coronary angiography; 2- this may be relevant since angiographically detectable SNA disease was significantly associated with a positive history of SVA .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1204/', ['Cardiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Hematology', 'Internal Medicine', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan', u'Laboratory of Clinical Informatics and Cardiovascular Imaging, Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan', u'Cardiovascular Diseases Unit, Fondazione IRCCS C\xe0 Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico', u'Department of Health Sciences, University of Milan']]
[u'Characteristics of frequent presenters: An analysis of 1 year of data from an Irish Emergency Department', ['Philip A Walker', 'Niamh Cummins', 'Niamh Collins'], u'2015-07-01', u"Introduction: Frequent presenters (FPs) to the Emergency Department (ED) have been studied heavily in international literature. Many studies suggest that maintaining services for this cohort of patients is wasteful and detracts from the needs of nonfrequent presenters. In this study we aim to describe the characteristics of FPs to the ED. We review data pertaining to frequent ED use, demographics of FPs, their preferred methods of arrival to the ED and their social living arrangements. FP's tend to rely heavily on other services as well as the ED and primary care. Methods: A systematic retrospective review of FPs attendance was performed. Results: FPs accounted for 3.9% (n=1231) of total ED attendance. The age of the FP population ranged from 19- 94 (Median = 45.5, SD 18.422). Increased ED attendance was positively associated with younger age groups. The age category accounting for the highest ED attendance was those aged between 19-35 years. From the 152 (100%) FPs, 50.7% (n=77) were males and 49.3% (n=75) were female. When the living arrangements of FPs were examined, 40.1% (n=61) lived with family, 37.5% (n=57) lived alone, 12.5% (n=19) resided in residential care while data on 9.9% (n=15) FPs was unknown. A Chi-squared analysis was computed to determine if age showed any significant correlation with living arrangements. The findings were not significant as X2 =2.148 (df3, p=0.542). Conclusions: FP's are positively associated with being young and often present with true medical needs. Many believe that frequent presentation is positively associated with free health care and living alone this is not the case. FP's are more likely to live with family and up to 17% of FP attendances have been as a result of primary care referral. FPs also present frequently to the ambulance service with almost 50% utilising the service for transport to the ED.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1000/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Epidemiology', 'Health Policy', 'Nursing', 'Public Health'], [u'Schoold of Biomedical Science, Charles Sturt University', u'Center for Pre-Hospital Research, University of Limerick', u'Department of Emergency Medicine, Connolly Memorial Hospital']]
[u'Evidence for embodied predictive coding: the anterior insula coordinates cortical processing of tactile deviancy', ['Micah Allen', 'Francesca Fardo', 'Martin Dietz', 'Hauke F Hillebrandt', 'Geraint Rees', 'Andreas Roepstorff'], u'2015-07-01', u'Embodied awareness is the pervasive, multimodal self-awareness that is thought to form the foundation of emotion. This awareness was recently proposed to rely on the anterior insular cortex (AIC) comparing expected and actual bodily signals arising in prefrontal and sensory cortices. To investigate this possibility in the somatosensory domain, we measured brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging while healthy participants discriminated tactile stimuli in a roving oddball design. Dynamic Causal Modelling revealed that unexpected stimuli increased the strength of forward connections in a caudal to rostral ascending hierarchy from thalamic and somatosensory regions towards insula, cingulate and prefrontal cortices, consistent with hierarchical predictive coding. Within this feed-forward flow of neural coupling, the AIC increased both forwards and backwards connections with prefrontal and somatosensory cortex, supporting a comparator role. Further, we found that greater prefrontal to AIC connectivity predicted subjective ratings of stimulus discrimination difficulty. These results are interpreted in light of embodied predictive coding, suggesting that the AIC coordinates global cortical processing of tactile changes to support body awareness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1203/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Wellcome Trust Center for Neuroimaging, University College London', u'Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London', u'Center of Functionally Integrative Neuroscience, Aarhus University Hospital', u'Harvard University', u'Interacting Minds Center, Aarhus University']]
[u'Investigating readiness to use Internet and mobile services of diabetic patients of a middle-income country', ['Javad Jafari', 'Hossein Karimi Moonaghi', 'Soleiman Ahmady', 'Nabil Zary', 'Italo Masiello'], u'2015-06-30', u'Background: Diabetes mellitus is increasing worldwide, especially in developing countries, as a consequence of urbanization. The use of the Internet and mobile service are increasing as well. The independent use of the Internet and mobile technologies by the patients could be a key step towards self-care management of the disease. Methods: A validated questionnaire with two parts was used and was completed by patients who came to two diabetic clinics for routine checkup. The first part consisted of 16 items collecting demographics information. The second part contained 26 items about the specific use of the Internet and mobile services to access information. Results: 407 questionnaires were completed. 108 (26,5 %) had routine access to Internet, of which 95,4 % had routine access to mobile services and 77,8 % were positive to the use of a Persian website for medical information. Yet, 55 % of respondents preferred to get information from TV, radio and educational courses. Conclusions: Data suggest that most diabetic patients who use the Internet in this study were willing to receive educational material by the Internet. However, many still prefer traditional means of information. Our future research is going to focus on early adopters.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1111/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska Institutet', u'Department of Education, Mashhad University of Medical sciences', u'Department of Medical Education, School of Medical Education, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences', u'Clinical Science and Education, South Hospital, Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'Psychedelics and creativity: a review of the quantitative literature', ['Matthew J Baggott'], u'2015-06-30', u'After a 40-year hiatus, the question of whether psychedelics can increase creativity is being asked with renewed vigor. This article critically reviews the conceptual issues of studying psychedelic-induced creativity by summarizing the limited evidence on the question and suggesting two broader frameworks. There are two important challenges to researchers on this topic. One is to separate creativity from other effects of the drug that may be mistaken for creativity. The second is to develop operational measures to quantify it. This article reviews the major studies assessing creativity (or related constructs) induced by psychedelics, including a reanalysis of raw data from one study. Results are modest and inconclusive but are consistent with reports that psychedelics give rise to unusual or novel thoughts. Given the lack of robust changes in creativity measures, I suggest creativity may be too specific of a construct to accurately and fully characterize the putatively beneficial cognitive changes that psychedelic users report. Feelings of creativity may be an inconsistent result of a more general effect of these drugs, such as alterations in availability of mental representations or changes in Bayesian inference. Ultimately, creativity may not be a sufficiently creative construct to capture the beneficial effects of psychedelics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1202/', ['Pharmacology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'n/a']]
[u'Application of Graph Theory to the elaboration of personal genomic data for genealogical research', ['Vincenzo Palleschi', 'Luca Pagani', 'Stefano Pagnotta', 'Giuseppe Amato', 'Sergio Tofanelli'], u'2015-06-30', u'In this communication a representation of the links between DNA-relatives based on Graph Theory is applied to the analysis of personal genomic data to obtain genealogical information. The method is tested on real data and discussed its applicability to the field of genealogical research. We envisage the proposed approach as a valid tool for a streamlined application to the publicly available data generated by many online personal genomic companies. By this way, anonymized matrices of pairwise genome sharing counts will enable to improve the retrieval of genetic relationship between customers who provided explicit consent to the treatment of their data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1201/', ['Computational Biology', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Visual Analytics'], [u'Institute of Chemistry of Organometallic Compounds, Research Area of National Research Council', u'Department of Civilizations and Forms of Knowledge, University of Pisa', u'Division of Biological Anthropology, University of Cambridge', u'Department of Biological, Geological and Environmental Sciences, University of Bologna', u'Institute of Sciences and Technology of Information, National Research Council', u'Department of Biology, University of Pisa']]
[u'The charming code that error messages are talking about', ['Joshua C Campbell', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2015-06-29', u"The intent of high test coverage is to ensure that the dark nooks and crannies of code are exercised and tested. In a language like Python this is especially important as syntax errors can lurk in unevaluated blocks, only to be discovered once they are finally executed. Bugs that present themselves as error messages mentioning a line of code which is unrelated to the cause of the bug can be difficult and time-consuming to fix when a developer must first determine the actual location of the fault. A new code metric, charm, is presented. Charm can be used by developers, researchers, and automated tools to gain a deeper understanding of source code and become aware of potentially hidden faults, areas of code which are not sufficiently tested, and areas of code which may be more difficult to debug. Charm quantifies the property that error messges caused by a fault at one location don't always reference that location. In fact, error messages seem to prefer to reference some locations far more often than others. The quantity of charm can be estimated by averaging results from a random sample of similar programs to the one being measured by a procedure of random-mutation testing. Charm is estimated for release-quality Python software, requiring many thousands of similar Python programs to be executed. Charm has some correlation with a standard software metric, cyclomatic complexity. 21 code features which may have some relationship with charm and cyclomatic complexity are investigated, of which five are found to be significantly related with charm. These five features are then used to build a linear model which attempts to estimate charm cheaply.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1138/', ['Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'The effect of achievement motive on social participation, ikigai, and role expectations in community-dwelling elderly people by using cross-sectional research', ['Nobuyuki Sano', 'Makoto Kyougoku'], u'2015-06-26', u"Background: Achievement motive is defined as the intention to achieve one's goals. It is an important consideration in rehabilitation. However, previous studies have not demonstrated the causal relationship between achievement motive and a more enhanced quality of life such as the concept of ikigai and role expectation. Purpose: The purpose of this study is to identify the effect of achievement motive on ikigai, social participation, and role expectations of community-dwelling elderly people. Method: Participants were community-dwelling elderly people in day-service centers. A total of 281 participants (male: 127, female: 154) answered the self-administered questionnaire in cross-sectional research. The questionnaire comprised demographic data and scales that evaluated achievement motive, social participation, ikigai, and role expectation. We studied the causal relationship established on our hypothesized model by a structural equation modeling approach. Results: We checked the standardized path coefficients and the modification indices, and the modified model were good fit statistics: CFI = .984, TLI = .983, RMSEA = .050, 90% CI [.044, 055]. Achievement motive had a significant direct effect on ikigai (direct effect = .455, p value = .000), a significant indirect effect on ikigai via social participation or role expectation (indirect effect = .170, p value = .000) and a total effect on ikigai (total effect = .615). Discussion: This result suggested that enhancing the intention to achieve one's goals enables participants to feel a spirit of challenge with a purpose and a sense of fulfillment in daily living. At the same time, engaging in important activities for oneself as well as recognizing one's role in society enables participants to experience a willingness to help others. We recommend that rehabilitation therapists collaborate with their clients to form new goals based on the client's achievement motive.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1200/', ['Epidemiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Geriatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Graduate School of Health Sciences, Kibi International  University', u'Department of Occupational Therapy, School of Health Sciences, Kibi International  University']]
[u'Temporal stability of an endemic Mexican treefrog', ['Griselda Cruz-Ruiz', 'Crystian S. Venegas-Barrera', 'Hermilo Sanchez-Sanchez', 'Javier Manjarrez'], u'2015-06-26', u'The demographic characteristics of an amphibian population fluctuate independently over time, mainly in response to the temporal variation of environmental factors, especially precipitation and temperature. These temporal fluctuations may contribute to the effective size of an amphibian population and could be used to inform the current conservation status of a species. During a five year (2004-2008) period, we studied the relative abundance, sex ratio, and size-age structure of a population of metamorphosed individuals of the endemic treefrog Hyla eximia in Central Mexico. We also studied the species\u2019 relationship with climatic variables such as temperatura and precipitation. We found an interannual constant abundance during the study period. However, interannual differences were observed in the population structure by age-sex category (males, females, or juveniles), with increased abundance of juveniles during the rainy months (August-November). The annual abundance of H. eximia was positively correlated with rainfall, but negatively with monthly temperature. We found the sex ratio was male-biased (2:1) except for year 2008. Also, differences in snout-vent length (SVL) were found between years, suggesting changes in recruitment of new individuals. We conclude that variations in abundance, and frequencies by age-sex category, of H. eximia are related to seasonal variations in temperature and precipitation characteristics of temperate zones. However, this temporal stability may suggest that anurans have an unusual capacity to persist even in the face of human-induced habitat change.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1199/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Aut\xf3noma del Estado de M\xe9xico', u'Divisi\xf3n de Estudios de Posgrado e Investigaci\xf3n, Instituto Tecnol\xf3gico de Ciudad Victoria']]
[u'Getting the most out of RNA-seq data analysis', ['Tsung Fei Khang', 'Ching Yee Lau'], u'2015-06-26', u'Background: A common research goal in transcriptome projects is to find genes that are differentially expressed in different phenotype classes. Biologists might wish to validate such gene candidates experimentally or use them for downstream systems biology analysis. Producing a coherent differential expression analysis from RNA-seq count data requires an understanding of how numerous sources of variation such as the replicate size, the hypothesized biological effect, and the specific method for making differential expression calls interact. We believe an explicit demonstration of such interactions in real RNA-seq data sets is of practical interest to the biologist. Results: Using two large public RNA-seq data sets - one representing strong, and another mild, biological response, we simulated different replicate size scenarios and tested the performance of several commonly-used methods for calling differentially expressed genes in each of them. Our results suggest that if the biological response of interest in the different phenotype classes is expected to be mild, then RNA-seq experiments should focus on validation of differentially expressed gene candidates. At least triplicates must be used, and the differentially expressed genes should be called using methods with high positive predictive value such as NOISeq or GFOLD. In contrast, for strong biological response, differentially expressed genes mined from unreplicated experiments using NOISeq, ASC and GFOLD had between 30 to 50% mean positive predictive value, an increase of more than 30-fold compared to the case of mild biological response. Among methods with good positive predictive value performance, having triplicates or more substantially improved mean positive predictive value to over 90% for GFOLD, 60% for DESeq2, 50% for NOISeq, and 30% for edgeR. We found DESeq2 to be the most reasonable method to call differentially expressed genes for systems level analysis as it showed the best PPV and sensitivity trade-off (mean PPV and mean sensitivity \u223c 65% at replicate size of six). Conclusion: When biological effect size is strong, NOISeq and GFOLD are effective tools for detecting differentially expressed genes in unreplicated RNA-seq experiments for validation work. Having triplicates or more enables DESeq2 to detect sufficiently large numbers of reliable gene candidates for downstream systems level analysis. When biological effect size is weak, systems level investigation is not possible, and no meaningful result can be obtained in unreplicated experiments. Nonetheless, NOISeq or GFOLD may yield limited numbers of candidates with good validation potential when triplicates or more are available.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1198/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'Institute of Mathematical Sciences, University of Malaya', u'Institute of Biological Sciences, University of Malaya']]
[u'Sharing analysis in the Pawns compiler', ['Lee Naish'], u'2015-06-25', u'Pawns is a programming language under development that supports algebraic data types, polymorphism, higher order functions and "pure" declarative programming. It also supports impure imperative features including destructive update of shared data structures via pointers, allowing significantly increased efficiency for some operations. A novelty of Pawns is that all impure "effects" must be made obvious in the source code and they can be safely encapsulated in pure functions in a way that is checked by the compiler. Execution of a pure function can perform destructive updates on data structures that are local to or eventually returned from the function without risking modification of the data structures passed to the function. This paper describes the sharing analysis which allows impurity to be encapsulated. Aspects of the analysis are similar to other published work, but in addition it handles explicit pointers and destructive update, higher order functions including closures and pre- and post-conditions concerning sharing for functions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/907/', ['Programming Languages'], [u'Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne']]
[u'Intrasaccadic perception triggers pupillary constriction', ['Sebastiaan Mathot', 'Jean-Baptiste Melmi', 'Eric Castet'], u'2015-06-25', u"It is commonly believed that vision is impaired during saccadic eye movements. However, here we report that some visual stimuli are clearly visible during saccades, and trigger a constriction of the eye's pupil. Participants viewed sinusoid gratings that changed polarity 150 times per second (every 6.67 ms). At this rate of flicker, the gratings were perceived as homogeneous surfaces while participants fixated. However, the flickering gratings contained ambiguous motion: rightward and leftward motion for vertical gratings; upward and downward motion for horizontal gratings. When participants made a saccade perpendicular to the gratings' orientation (e.g., a leftward saccade for a vertical grating), the eye's peak velocity matched the gratings' motion. As a result, the retinal image was approximately stable for a brief moment during the saccade, and this gave rise to an intrasaccadic percept: A normally invisible stimulus became visible when eye velocity was maximal. Our results confirm and extend previous studies by demonstrating intrasaccadic perception using a reflexive measure (pupillometry) that does not rely on subjective report. Our results further show that intrasaccadic perception affects all stages of visual processing, from the pupillary response to visual awareness.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/957/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive, UMR 7290, Aix-Marseille University / CNRS']]
[u'Characterization of artisanal fisheries in Nepal and potential implications for the conservation and management of Ganges River Dolphin (Platanista gangetica gangetica)', ['Shambhu Paudel', 'Juan C Levesque', 'Camilo Saavedra', 'Cristina Pita', 'Prabhat Pal'], u'2015-06-25', u'The Ganges River dolphin (Platanista gangetica gangetica) (GRD) is classified as one of the most endangered of all cetaceans in the world and the second scarcest freshwater cetacean. The population is estimated to be less than 2,000 individuals. In Nepal\u2019s Narayani, Sapta Koshi, and Karnali river systems, survival of GRD continues to be threatened by various anthropogenic activities, such as dam construction and interactions with artisanal fisheries. A basic description of the geographic scope, economics, and types of gear used in these fisheries would help managers understand the fishery-dolphin interaction conflict and assist with developing potential solutions to reduce interactions between GRD and local fisheries in Nepal. The main purpose of the study was to collect fishery and socio-economic information by conducting interviews with local fishermen in the Narayani, Sapta Koshi, and Karnali river systems. Based on interviews (n = 163), 79 percent of Nepalese fishermen indicated fishing for local species (e.g., mullet [Rhinomugil corsula] or siloroid catfish [Bagarius bagarius]) was their primary form of income. Fishermen reported fishing effort was greater in summer than winter; greatest in the afternoon (1430 hrs \xb1 0.27) and during low water level conditions; and gear was set 4.8 \xb1 0.2 days/week. Fishermen reported using eight different types of monofilament nets (gillnets and cast nets). Sixty percent used gillnets less than 10 m long, and less than one third preferred gillnets between 10 and 100 m long; a few used gillnets longer than 100 m. Fishermen usually set their gear close to their village, and about 50 percent preferred to fish in tributaries followed by the main channel behind sandbars and islands, and the main channel near a bank. Fishermen reported seeing more GRD in the main river stem in winter. In summer, fishermen spotted more GRD in tributaries. Most fishermen told us they believed education, awareness, and changing occupations were important for GRD conservation, but they indicated that occupational options were currently limited in Nepal. Nepalese fishermen acknowledged that fisheries posed a risk to GRD, but they believed water pollution, and dam/irrigation development were the greatest threats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1197/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Kathmandu Forestry College', u'Environmental Resources Management', u'Instituto Espa\xf1ol de Oceanograf\xeda', u'Department of Biology & Centre for Environmental and Marine Studies (CESAM), University of Aveiro', u'Department of Soil Conservation and Watershed Management, Ministry of Forest and Soil Conservation, Nepal, The Himalaya']]
[u'A survey of Chinese Interpreting Studies: Who influences who \u2026 and why?', ['Ziyun Xu', 'Leonid B Pekelis'], u'2015-06-24', u'This paper describes how scholars in Chinese Interpreting Studies (CIS) interact with each other and form discrete circles of influence. It also discusses what it means to be an influential scholar in the community and the relationship between an author\u2019s choice of research topic and his academic influence. The study examines an all-but-exhaustive collection of 59,303 citations from 1,289 MA theses, 32 doctoral dissertations and 2,909 research papers, combining traditional citation analysis with the newer Social Network Analysis to paint a panorama of CIS. It concludes that the community cannot be broadly divided into Liberal Arts and Empirical Science camps; rather, it comprises several distinct communities with various defining features. The analysis also reveals that the top Western influencers have an array of academic backgrounds and research interests across many different disciplines, whereas their Chinese counterparts are predominantly focused on Interpreting Studies. Last but not least, there is found to be a positive correlation between choosing non-mainstream research topics and having a high level of academic influence in the community.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/941/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Digital Libraries', 'Social Computing'], [u'Intercultural Studies Group, Universitat Rovira i Virgili', u'Department of Statistics, Stanford University']]
[u'Irrigation and avifaunal change in Coastal Northwest Mexico: Has irrigated habit attracted threatened migratory species?', ['Sievert Rohwer', 'Emily W. Grason', 'Adolfo G Navarro-Siguenza'], u'2015-06-23', u'Irrigation in desert ecosystems can either reduce or increase species diversity. Groundwater pumping often lowers water tables and reduces natural wetlands, while canal irrigation often creates mesic habitat, resulting in great increases in avian diversity from irrigation. Here we use remotely-sensed data sets to show that 60% of the land in the coastal plain of southern Sonora and northern Sinaloa lying below 200m elevation has been converted by irrigation to more mesic habitats. We then use the record of bird specimens in the world\u2019s museums from this same region of Mexico to examine the avian community before and after the development of extensive irrigation. In general these museum records show an increase in the abundance and diversity of breeding birds associated with mesic habitats. Although thorn forest birds have likely decreased in total numbers, most are common enough in the remaining thorn forest that collection records did not indicate their probable decline. Four migrants having most of their breeding ranges in the U.S. or Canada, Yellow-billed Cuckoo, Cliff Swallow, Bell\u2019s Vireo, and Orchard Oriole, apparently have increased dramatically as breeders in irrigated habitats of NW Mexico. Because these species have decreased or even largely disappeared as breeding birds in parts of the U.S. or Canada, further research should assess whether their increases in new mesic habitats of NW Mexico are linked to their declines as breeding birds in Canada and the U.S. For Bell\u2019s Vireo recent specimens from Sinaloa suggest its new breeding population in NW Mexico may be composed partly of the endangered Least Bell\u2019s Vireo.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1194/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'University of Washington, Burke Museum and Department of Biology', u'Department of Biology, University of Washington', u'Museo de Zoolog\xeda, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico']]
[u'Isolated instrument transcription using a deep belief network', ['Gregory Burlet', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2015-06-23', u'Automatic music transcription is a difficult task that has provoked extensive research on transcription systems that are predominantly general purpose, processing any number or type of instruments sounding simultaneously. This paper presents a polyphonic transcription system that is constrained to processing the output of a single instrument with an upper bound on polyphony. For example, a guitar has six strings and is limited to producing six notes simultaneously. The transcription system consists of a novel pitch estimation algorithm that uses a deep belief network and multi-label learning techniques to generate multiple pitch estimates for each audio analysis frame, such that the polyphony does not exceed that of the instrument. The implemented transcription system is evaluated on a compiled dataset of synthesized guitar recordings. Comparing these results to a prior single-instrument polyphonic transcription system that received exceptional results, this paper demonstrates the effectiveness of deep, multi-label learning for the task of polyphonic transcription.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1193/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Comment on Nalliah and Allareddy (2014): Unwarranted conclusions', ['Paul C Bernhardt'], u'2015-06-22', u'A PeerJ paper by Nalliah and Allareddy (2014) describes improvement in weaker dental students\u2019 scores (and decline in stronger students\u2019 scores) by use of a unique instructional method. I argue that the causal conclusion in their paper cannot be justified because of lack of a comparison group. Regression to the mean is a common confound in test-retest studies such as presented in their paper. Inclusion of a comparison group could be used to rule it out. Other minor issues are raised involving scaling and consistency in the data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1191/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Psychology, Frostburg State University']]
[u'Impacts of multiple environmental stressors on coral reef erosion and secondary accretion', ['Nyssa J Silbiger', 'Oscar Guadayol', 'Florence I.M. Thomas', 'Megan J Donahue'], u'2015-06-19', u'', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1190/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii at Manoa', u'School of Life Sciences, Joseph Banks Laboratories, University of Lincoln']]
[u'Education of IT skills for the healthcare workforce in EU-US: Analysis of opportunities', ['Vicente Traver', 'Stathis Konstantinidis', 'Panagiotis Bamidis', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2015-06-19', u'Physicians, nurses and other professionals interact with patients every day, and ICT, especially the internet, can enhance the communication processes among them, providing timely information to patients about disease prevention, health promotion, as well as treatment of diseases. ICT skills are: access to health science information, management of health information and knowledge, generation and dissemination of health knowledge. The development of these new ICT skills requires digital literate people.\nFunded by the CAMEI EC funded project, a whitepaper has been produced, identifying some key recommendations about how USA organisations and communities can cooperate with EU organisations in order to empower sharing, reuse, repurposing and creation of educational material applied in different context and promote renewal of programmes.\nAfter the analysis of opportunities about education of IT skills for the healthcare workforce in EU-US, authors conclude that:\n- Common challenges and opportunities on providing IT skills for healthcare workforce have been identified, assessing the cooperation potential among the EU and the US.\n- A benchmark in detail policy priorities of US on IT skills for Healthcare workforce and research sub-areas with those of EU (i2010, FP7-ICT strategic priorities, Horizon 2020) has been performed to help partners from the other side to be involved in joint related activities.\n- Open Education and the creation of some educational frameworks have been identified as the means and the guidelines of sharing, re-using, and repurposing technologies of new educational material and programs for IT-skilled workforce in healthcare applied in the different context, different languages and cultures in the EU and US.\n- A prominent base of cooperation where mutual benefits can be generated for both regions has been located, identifying key players from the EU and US.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1188/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'SABIEN, ITACA - Universitat Polit\xe8cnica de Val\xe8ncia', u'Northern Research Institute, NORUT', u'Lab of Medical Physics, Medical School, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Greece', u'Karolinska Institutet, KI']]
[u'Designing patient education with distance learning', ['Bastiaan Franssen', 'Javad Jafari', 'Nabil Zary', 'Italo Masiello'], u'2015-06-18', u'Background: Self-management is crucial among patients with diabetes. Increasing the levels of self-management may prevent patients from developing further complications related to their disease. Tailoring education to the patient needs, and providing them with follow-up education on the various topics of diabetes could significantly improve patient understanding. The inclusion of distance learning, and especially Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC), in diabetes education has not been significant though. What topics should a distance-learning platform focus on when offering patient education to type 2 diabetics? How do patients perceive such a platform? And what education method should be used to better reach patient understanding, ultimately helping diabetics to reach better self-management? Objective: Describing the needs and requirements of type 2 diabetics for the development of an online learning platform. The study tried to analyse what topics patients need follow-up education on to reach better self-management and how. The study wants to get an answer where patients would use a knowledge-driven decision support method inside the patient centric learning model Methods: A qualitative approach for this study included 6 participants, aged 30 to 65 years old. They were diagnosed with type 2 diabetes not earlier than 6 months before the start of this study and had no further diabetes related complications. They participated in an interview on the several topics related to diabetes, which identified where the need and requirements for education in is at. To help identify which topics patients wanted to receive follow-up education on the Diabetes Self-Management education (DSME) was used. The interview contained structured and unstructured questions, and was performed with a high level of involvement to provide relevant information related to diabetes throughout the interview. Results: Participants welcomed the idea of receiving education via an online learning platform. The incorporation of multimedia was highly recommended, and the method of receiving education was recommended to change per subject, not per topic. Overall, patient-centric learning was a preferred method in all topics, but knowledge-driven decision support was welcomed as an addition to some of the subjects. Conclusion: The current education offered is limited to providing basic understanding of performing self-management. Participants felt the need for follow-up education, but could not be provided with this. The proposed platform, with possibilities to access information whenever the patients needed, was seen as a welcomed addition to the current education offered in the different setups. Using patient-centric learning, combined with the integration of knowledge-driven decision support, could provide education and information whenever needed and benefit in increasing self-management levels among diabetics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1143/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska Insitutet']]
[u'When one code = 2,300 species: Expanding our understanding of the trade in aquatic marine wildlife', ['Andrew L Rhyne', 'Michael F Tlusty', 'Joseph Szczebak', 'Robert J Holmberg'], u'2015-06-18', u'The trade of marine ornamental animals for home and public aquariums has grown into a major global industry. Since the 1990s, the aquarium hobby has shifted focus from fish to miniature reef ecosystems. Millions of marine fish and invertebrates are removed from coral reefs and associated habitats each year, and the majority are imported into the United States, with the remainder imported by Europe, Japan, and a handful of other countries. This shift in aquarium complexity demands increases in not only the volume but also the diversity of species harvested by collectors, who now must supply the trade with species sought for both aesthetics as well as ecosystem services (e.g., species that benefit the life support services of aquariums). Despite the recent growth and diversification of the aquarium trade, to date, data collection is not mandatory, and hence comprehensive information on species volume or diversity is wanting. The lack of this information makes it impossible to study trade pathways. Without species-specific volume and diversity data, it is unclear how importing and exporting governments can oversee this industry effectively. It is also unclear how sustainability should be encouraged given the paucity of data. To expand our knowledge and understanding of this trade, and to be able to effectively communicate this new understanding, we introduce the Marine Aquarium Biodiversity and Trade Flow online database (https://www.aquariumtradedata.org/). This tool was created as a means to assess the volume and diversity of marine fishes and/or invertebrates imported into the US over four years (2005, 2008, 2009, and 2011) and one month of additional data in 2000. It is available online for perusal by the public which will help communicate this new understanding in the trade of aquatic wildlife. To create this online tool, invoices pertaining to shipments of live marine fish and invertebrates were scanned and analyzed for species name, quantity, country of origin, and city of import destination. The results for October 2000 as well as the year between June 2004 and May 2005 have been published (Rhyne et al. 2012, http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0035808; Balboa 2003). Here we focus on the later three years of data and also produce an estimate of fish to create complete calendar years for 2000, 2004, and 2005. The three-year aggregate totals indicate that just under 2,300 fish and 725 invertebrate species were imported into the US, even though each year, just shy of 1,800 fish and 550 invertebrate species were traded. Overall, the total number of live marine animals decreased between 2008 and 2011. In 2008, 2009, and 2011, the total number of individual fish (8.2, 7.3, and 6.9 million) and invertebrates (4.2, 3.7, and 3.6 million) assessed by analyzing the invoice data are roughly 60% of the total volumes recorded through the LEMIS dataset.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1176/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Biology and Marine Biology, Roger Williams University', u'Prescott Marine Research Lab, New England Aquarium', u'School for the Environment, University of Massachusetts Boston', u'Center for Economic and Environmental Development, Roger Williams University']]
[u'Low serum albumin and total lymphocyte count as predictors of 30 day hospital readmission in patients 65 years of age or older', ['Robert Robinson'], u'2015-06-18', u'Introduction: Hospital readmission within 30 days of discharge is a target for health care cost savings through the medicare Value Based Purchasing initiative. Because of this focus, hospitals and health systems are investing considerable resources into the identification of patients at risk of hospital readmission and designing interventions to reduce the rate of hospital readmission. Malnutrition is a known risk factor for hospital readmission.\nMaterials and Methods: All medical patients 65 years of age or older discharged from Memorial Medical Center from January 1, 2012 to March 31, 2012 who had a determination of serum albumin level and total lymphocyte count on hospital admission were studied retrospectively. Admission serum albumin levels and total lymphocyte counts were used to classify the nutritional status of all patients in the study. Patients with a serum albumin less than 3.5 grams/dL and/or a TLC less than 1,500 cells per mm3 were classified as having protein energy malnutrition. The primary outcome investigated in this study was hospital readmission for any reason within 30 days of discharge.\nResults: The study population included 1,683 hospital discharges with an average age of 79 years. The majority of the patients were female (55.9%) and had a DRG weight of 1.22 (0.68). 219 patients (13%) were readmitted within 30 days of hospital discharge. Protein energy malnutrition was common in this population. Low albumin was found in 973 (58%) patients and a low TLC was found in 1,152 (68%) patients. Low albumin and low TLC was found in 709 (42%) of patients. Kaplan-Meier analysis shows any laboratory evidence of PEM is a significant (p < 0.001) predictor of hospital readmission. Low serum albumin (p < 0.001) and TLC (p = 0.018) show similar trends. Cox proportional-hazards regression analysis showed low serum albumin (Hazard Ratio 3.27, 95% CI: 2.30-4.63) and higher DRG weight (Hazard Ratio 1.19, 95% CI: 1.03-1.38) to be significant independent predictors of hospital readmission within 30 days.\nDiscussion: This study investigated the relationship of PEM to the rate of hospital readmission within 30 days of discharge in patients 65 years of age or older. These results indicate that laboratory markers of PEM can identify patients at risk of hospital readmission within 30 days of discharge. This risk determination is simple and identifies a potentially modifiable risk factor for readmission: protein energy malnutrition.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1186/', ['Geriatrics', 'Health Policy', 'Hematology', 'Nutrition'], [u'Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine']]
[u'Cranial ontogenetic variation in early saurischians and the role of heterochrony in the diversification of predatory dinosaurs', ['Christian Foth', 'Brandon P Hedrick', 'Martin D Ezcurra'], u'2015-06-18', u'Non-avian saurischian skulls underwent at least 165 million years of evolution and shapes varied from elongated skulls, such as in Coelophysis, to short and box-shaped skulls, such as in Camarasaurus. A number of factors have long been considered to drive skull shape, including phylogeny, dietary preferences and functional constraints. However, heterochrony is increasingly being recognized as a major factor in dinosaur evolution. In order to quantitatively analyse the impact of heterochrony on saurischian skull shape, we have analysed five ontogenetic trajectories using two-dimensional geometric morphometrics in a phylogenetic framework. This allowed for the evaluation of how heterochrony affected overall skull shape through both ontogenetic and phylogenetic trajectories and how it impacted modular changes within the skull. Using principal component analyses and multivariate regressions, it was possible to quantify different ontogenetic trajectories in light of heterochrony. The results recovered here indicate that taxa underwent a combination of local paedomorphosis and peramorphosis within the skull along individual ontogenies and phylogenies, but that either peramorphosis or paedomorphosis dominated when the skull was considered as a whole. We found that the hypothetical ancestor of Saurischia led to basal Sauropodomorpha mainly through paedomorphosis, and to Neotheropoda mainly through peramorphosis. Paedomorphosis then led from Orionides to Avetheropoda, indicating that the paedomorphic trend previously found in advanced coelurosaurs may extend back into the early evolution of Avetheropoda. Not only are changes in saurischian skull shape complex due to the large number of factors that affect shape, but heterochrony itself is complex, with a number of reversals throughout non-avian saurischian evolution. The sampling of ontogenetic trajectories is considerably lower than the sampling of adult species and the current study represents a first exploratory analysis. To better understand the impact of heterochrony on cranial evolution in saurischians, the data set we present must be expanded and complemented with further sampling from future fossil discoveries, especially of juvenile taxa.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1185/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'SNSB, Bayerische Staatssammlung f\xfcr Pal\xe4ontologie und Geologie', u'Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xe4t', u'Department of Geosciences, University of Fribourg/Freiburg', u'Department of Earth and Environmental Science, University of Pennsylvania', u'Secci\xf3n Paleontolog\xeda de Vertebrados, Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales', u'School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Birmingham']]
[u'A redundancy-removing feature selection algorithm for nominal data', ['Zhihua Li'], u'2015-06-18', u'No order correlation or similarity metric exists in nominal data, and there will always be more redundancy in a nominal dataset, which means that an efficient mutual information-based nominal-data feature selection method is relatively difficult to find. In this paper, a nominal-data feature selection method based on mutual information without data transformation, called the redundancy-removing more relevance less redundancy algorithm, is proposed. By forming several new information-related definitions and the corresponding computational methods, the proposed method can compute the information-related amount of nominal data directly. Furthermore, by creating a new evaluation function that considers both the relevance and the redundancy globally, the new feature selection method can evaluate the importance of each nominal-data feature. Although the presented feature selection method takes commonly used MIFS-like forms, it is capable of handling high-dimensional datasets without expensive computations. We perform extensive experimental comparisons of the proposed algorithm and other methods using three benchmarking nominal datasets with two different classifiers. The experimental results demonstrate the average advantage of the presented algorithm over the well-known NMIFS algorithm in terms of the feature selection and classification accuracy, which indicates that the proposed method has a promising performance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1184/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'Key Laboratory of Advanced Process Control for Light Industry Ministry of Education', u'Engineering Research Center of Internet of Things Technology Application Ministry of Education', u'Department of Computer Science, Engineering School of Internet of Things Engineering, Jiangnan University', u'Department of Computer Science, Georgia State University']]
[u'Less is more stable: arguing for few names in turtle\u2019s taxonomy', ['Pedro S. R. Romano'], u'2015-06-15', u'Background. Beyond the International Codes of Zoological (ICZN) and Botanical Nomenclature and the PhyloCode, there is an alternative taxonomic system for phylogenetic systematics proposed. This phylogenetic nomenclature suggests the elimination of suprageneric names and the use of negative indexes instead of it. This system of nomenclature has a basic principle to identify clades: the presence of nominal heterobathmy, which is analogous to Hennig\'s "heterobathmy of characters", but applied to taxa names. Here I argue for an extensive use of heterobathmy as basic criteria to determinate \u201cgood\u201d nodes to identify higher level taxa names. Methods. I used a previews published dataset (doi:10.5061/dryad.f2h6r) and ran several searches for Most Parsimonious Trees (MPT) using different search algorithms and assumptions in TNT. After that, I compared the results of different searches, mapped the characters transformations, and calculate the Bremer supports. The results were then compared with the current taxonomy proposed for Pelomedusoides, with emphasis on Bothremydidae. Results. The remarkable divergences with the current taxonomy of Bothremydidae are: (1) Kurmademydini and Bothremydini need to be redefined; (2) Cearachelyini and Galianemys lack diagnostic characters and, therefore, are not monophyletic; and (3) Bothremydidae do not possess common diagnostic characters in all MPT, thus, lacks a well supported heterobathmy with its sister-group, Podocnemidinura (=Pan-Podocnemididae). Moreover, the Infrafamily Bothremydodda has Bremer support of 3. However, given that all bothremydids are extinct, it is impossible to define a panstem clade based on a crown group. The result is an unstable nomenclature with more names than necessary. Discussion. The use of heterobathmy is a center point in Hennig\'s argumentation for phylogenetic reconstruction. Indeed, it implies the zero length collapsing rule applied to cladistic reconstruction (which is the TNT default option). Nonetheless, ambiguous characters or several equal MPT can imply on phylogenetic reconstructions that lack a consistent heterobathmy (i.e.: a common diagnostic character in the ancestor eidophoront of a given node in all MPT; as is the case of Bothremydidae). A possible solution is to use the suffix \u201cformes\u201d to designate extinct lineages with stem-species when some nodes are not well supported in a given phylogeny. In the example presented here, it would consist on naming ICZN\u2019s Bothremydodda as \u201cBothremydidae\u201d (sensu stricto) and ICZN\u2019s Bothremydidae (sensu lato, i.e.: including stem-Bothremydidae) as \u201cBothremydidiformes\u201d and avoid naming each node of the consensus tree unless it has high Bremer support. By taking into account this delimitation criterion, we can propose a more stable and clean taxonomy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1181/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Vi\xe7osa']]
[u"Predicting programmers' personality via interaction behaviour with keyboard and mouse", ['Iftikhar A Khan', 'Osman Khalid', 'Waqas Jadoon', 'Rafi Us. Shan', 'Abdul Nasir Nasir'], u'2015-06-17', u'This exploratory research was conducted to study the relationship between Big Five personality measurement scale and the interaction behaviour of the programmers with keyboard and mouse to examine the possibility of creating a computer based objective personality measurement scale. A field study with two analyses (N = 20), (N = 12) and a lab study (N = 15) were conducted where N is the number of participants who participated in the research. In the field study, interaction data were collected during normal PC use over several days. In the laboratory study, participants worked on a programming task while their interaction with keyboard and mouse was being recorded in background. All of the participants rated their personality online and uploaded the data for analysis. Results found inconsistent behaviour of all of the personality traits except \u2018activity level\u2019 in all studies and thus suggested that a programmer\u2019s \u2018activity level\u2019 can be predicted from his/her interaction behaviour with keyboard and mouse. This prediction will help in differentiating good programmers from not so good programmers objectively.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1183/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Computer Science, COMSATS Institute of Information Technology']]
[u'The biological side of randomness. A starting point to rethink causation of diseases and prevention as a strategy', ['Michele M Ciulla'], u'2015-06-16', u"It's time to rethink prevention as a strategy to fight diseases? In this opinion I'll try to question preventive medicine as a strategy starting from the evidences on the randomness of disease, as suggested by recent and very questioned data on variation in cancer risk among different tissues. To understand the scope of this refutation we must remember that the preventive strategy was developed since the introduction of the concept of risk factor, that date back to the Framingham Heart Study (FHS) started in 1948. Indeed, prior to the FHS, doctors were still engaged in the study of causation by following the established paradigm of aetiology, and had not yet focused on the concept of multifactorial diseases and prevention or prophylaxis of risk factors was not yet a paradigm in medicine. After having metabolised these new concepts and made prevention of risk factors the main strategy to fight multifactorial diseases for years, today, in a Western world that is aging, we are facing a new challenge since prevention seems to be no longer enough to cope with diseases such as cancer and, possibly, we need new strategies that we still have not. And this why? Possibly because the randomness appears ever more like the engine that drives the physical universe even if, for living organisms, we must admit several deterministic or, at least, very reproducible events since they are able to actively interact with the environment.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1147/', ['Global Health', 'Oncology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Laboratory of Clinical Informatics and Cardiovascular Imaging, Department of Clinical Sciences and Community Health, University of Milan', u'Cardiovascular Diseases Unit, Fondazione IRCCS C\xe0 Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico']]
[u'Interactions between donor Agreeableness and recipient characteristics in predicting charitable donation and positive social evaluation', ['Tal Yarkoni', 'Yoni K Ashar', 'Tor D Wager'], u'2015-06-16', u'Agreeable people are more likely to display prosocial attitudes and helpful behavior in a broad range of situations. Here we show that this tendency interacts with the personal characteristics of interaction partners. In an online study (n = 284), participants were given the opportunity to report attitudes toward and make monetary donations to needy individuals who were described in dynamically generated biographies. Using a machine learning and multilevel modeling framework, we tested three potential explanations for the facilitatory influence of Agreeableness on charitable behavior. We find that Agreeableness preferentially increased donations and prosocial attitudes toward targets normatively rated as being more deserving, but not to targets considered less deserving. Our results advance understanding of person-by-situation interactions in the context of charitable behavior and prosocial attitudes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1182/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Texas at Austin', u'Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, University of Colorado Boulder']]
[u'A multi prototype classification algorithm and its application to multi class diagnostics', ['Mario Ziller'], u'2015-06-15', u'This paper introduces a novel, universal distance-based classification procedure. It is based on a simple geometric model. Considering all objects as points in a metric space, a class is imagined as covered by potentially differentsized hyperspheres, the centres of which are referred to as prototypes. The radii of the hyperspheres are individually optimised by a generalised ROC-analysis. For the approximate solution of the entire discrete optimisation problem, a greedy algorithm was developed and implemented in R. It runs in O(k2\u2219n2\u2219log(n)) time where k is the number of prototypes to be selected and n the number of training objects. For application to multi class problems, one against all approach is performed. The diagnostic decision is finalised for that class of maximum positive predictive value when in doubt. Objects not recognised as a member of any of the classes are assigned to an additional residual class. The performance of the classification system presented is demonstrated on various data examples, and in comparison with other methods.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1180/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science'], [u'Biomathematics Working Group, Friedrich-Loeffler-Institut, Federal Research Institute for Animal Health']]
[u'A cost-efficient novel live-trap for demographic studies of small mammals', ['Osvaldo Locasciulli', 'Giuliano Milana', 'Flavio Rocchi', 'Luca Luiselli', 'Giovanni Amori'], u'2015-06-15', u'A new live-trap (named LOT trap) for small mammals is described herein. This trap is easily built and is considerably cheaper than commercial traps. The trap body is made of a PVC 8x8 cm pipe, with a tin door and a transparent plexiglas back door. The efficacy of this trap was tested in an experimental field study, and the results are presented and discussed. Capture rates were significantly different between types of trap, with 81.6% of captured rodents for LOT and 18.4% of rodents for multiple-capture traps.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1179/', ['Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Scientific Service, Gran Sasso and Monti della Laga National Park', u'ISE-CNR - Institute of Ecosystem Study', u'Department of Applied and Environmental Biology, Rivers State University of Science and Technology', u'Centre of Environmental Studies DEMETRA s.r.l.']]
[u'Giving increased value to invertebrates conservation through entotourism activity in current and planned ecotourism activity. Tourist attitudes preliminary study in Sabah, Borneo of Malaysia', ['Ak Mohd Rafiq Ak Matusin', 'Fiffy Hanisdah Saikim', 'Norazah Mohd Suki', 'Mahadi Menakbar M. Dawood'], u'2015-06-15', u'Tabin Wildlife Resort in Tabin Wildlife Reserve, Lahad Datu, Sabah is a popular tourist spot in Malaysia for being the largest wildlife reserve by mainly focusing on endangered mammals and birds. Thus, in this research, it is proposed to include invertebrates\u2019 information in the current ecotourism activities in Tabin Wildlife Reserve. Implicitly, it could increase a sustainable invertebrates\u2019 conservation. Invertebrates possess large benefits to humankind, namely waste recycling whereby, they cycle the minerals and organic minerals for plants and animals. Thus, this investigation aimed to study the tourists\u2019 perception on including invertebrates\u2019 information in current Tabin Wildlife Resort ecotourism activity. Hence, to collect data from tourists, pre-visit and post-visit questionnaire surveys were adopted as the methodological approach during preliminary entotourism activity. Two different conceptual framework sets (pre-visit and post-visit) were posited in this investigation. The collected data were analysed via Statistical Package for Social Sciences (SPSS) and Analysis of Moment Structure (AMOS) software program by adopting Structural Equation Modelling (SEM). SEM analyses revealed that both pre-visit and post-visit surveys have significant variance towards the ecotourism. This implied a good potential in including invertebrates in ecotourism activities especially in Sabah. The findings of this study are important to contribute to the literature of invertebrates\u2019 species conservation awareness in Sabah, since very limited researches are conducted specifically on entotourism field.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1178/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Entomology', 'Statistics'], [u'Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation, Universiti Malaysia Sabah', u'Labuan Faculty of International Finance, Universiti Malaysia Sabah']]
[u'A genetic manipulation of motor neuron excitability does not alter locomotor output in Drosophila larvae', ['Erin C. McKiernan'], u'2015-06-14', u'Are motor neurons just passive relayers of the signals they receive? Or, do motor neurons shape the signals before passing them on to the muscles, thereby influencing the timing of motor behavior? Few direct tests of the role of motor neuron intrinsic properties in shaping motor behavior have been carried out, and many questions remain about the role of specific ion channel genes in motor neuron function. In this study, two potassium channel transgenes were expressed in Drosophila larval motor neurons to increase their excitability. Mosaic animals were created in which some identified motor neurons expressed the transgenes while others did not. Motor output underlying crawling was compared in muscles innervated by control and experimental neurons in the same animals. No effect of the transgenic manipulation on motor output was seen. Possible explanations for these results are discussed, and future experiments are outlined that could shed light on how the larval nervous system produces normal motor output in the face of altered motor neuron excitability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/469/', ['Neuroscience', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Department of Psychology, Wilfrid Laurier University']]
[u'The yeast telomerase RNA, TLC1, participates in two distinct modes of TLC1-TLC1 association processes in vivo', ['Tet Matsuguchi', 'Elizabeth Blackburn'], u'2015-06-13', u'Telomerase core enzyme minimally consists of the telomerase reverse transcriptase domain-containing protein (Est2 in budding yeast S. cerevisiae) and telomerase RNA, which contains the template specifying the telomeric repeat sequence synthesized. Here we report that in vivo, a fraction of S. cerevisiae telomerase RNA (TLC1) molecules form complexes containing at least two molecules of TLC1, via two separable modes: one requiring a sequence in the 3\u2019 region of the immature TLC1 precursor and the other requiring Ku and Sir4. Such physical TLC1-TLC1 association peaked in G1 phase and did not require telomere silencing, telomere tethering to the nuclear periphery, telomerase holoenzyme assembly, or detectable Est2-Est2 protein association. These data indicate that TLC1-TLC1 associations reflect processes occurring during telomerase biogenesis; we propose that TLC1-TLC1 associations and subsequent reorganization may be regulatory steps in telomerase enzymatic activation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1177/', ['Biochemistry', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Assessment of seagrass communities in the northern Gulf of Aqaba: Mapping their distribution', ['Gidon Winters', 'Rachamim Shem Tov', 'Tal Elmaliach', 'Dor Edelist', 'Gil Rilov'], u'2015-06-12', u'Within the Gulf of Aqaba, coral reefs have been considered the dominating ecosystem, attracting not only scientific attention, but also restoration efforts, aquarium exhibits and outreach educational programs. Seagrasses, which are known worldwide as a highly important ecosystem, have not received much attention by the public, scientists or authorities involved in conservation and management in this region. This is surprising considering the value of ecosystem services associated with seagarsses and the fact that many of these services are important to adjacent coral reefs. The absence of comprehensive seagrass maps for this region, prohibits other downstream activities such as evaluations of the associated ecosystem services and implementation of potential conservation and management tools. Here we present efforts to map seagrass meadows along the Israeli coast of the northern Gulf of Aqaba. Mapping was done by snorkeling with a GPS and a handheld echo-sounder. Transects perpendicular to the shore were conducted with measurements taken every 10-20 m that included water depth, GPS position and percent of seagrass cover estimated visually up to 13-23 m depending on visibility. In addition to these transects, we also tracked the shallow boundary of the meadows parallel to shore, usually at 3-5 m depth. Both data sets were then fed into Arc-GIS to create an interpolated GIS layer. Out of 11 km available shoreline, we swam along 9.7 km and collected a total of 2830 data points. Seagrasses were found growing along 7.5 km of these shores, with seagrass meadows covering 707,000 sqm2.estimated to be worth = US$ 2,000,000 year-1 in associated ecosystem services. In addition to mapping the seagrass meadows themselvs, we also mapped the potential dangers to seagrasses in the region. Disturbances were ranked as low, medium or high according to severity and frequency. We expect that these maps (GIS layers) will allow us to not only understand the current distribution of seagrasses in the area, but also to develop a GIS-based tool that will improve our understanding of how changes in the Gulf could affect the cover and state of seagrasses, and thus improve conservation efforts in the region.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1175/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science'], [u'The Dead Sea Arava Science Center, Tamar regional Council', u'National Institute of Oceanography, Tel-Shikmona']]
[u'PopAlu: population-scale discovery of Alu polymorphisms', ['Yu Qian', 'Birte Kehr', 'Bjarni V Halldorsson'], u'2015-06-12', u'Alu elements are sequences of approximately 300 basepairs that combined comprise more than 10% of the human genome. Due to their recent origin in primate evolution some Alu elements are polymorphic in humans, present in some individuals while absent in others. We present PopAlu, a tool to detect polymorphic Alu elements on a population scale from paired-end sequencing data. PopAlu uses read pair distance and orientation as well as split reads to identify the location and precise breakpoints of polymorphic Alus. Genotype calling enables us to differentiate between homozygous and heterozygous carriers, making the output of PopAlu suitable for use in downstream analyses such as genome-wide association studies (GWAS). We show on a simulated dataset that PopAlu calls Alu elements inserted and deleted with respect to a reference genome with high accuracy and high precision. Our analysis of real data of a human trio from the 1000 Genomes Project confirms that PopAlu is able to produce highly accurate genotype calls. To our knowledge, PopAlu is the first tool that identifies polymorphic Alu elements from multiple individuals simultaneously, pinpoints the precise breakpoints and calls genotypes with high accuracy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1174/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Bioinformatics Research Center, Aarhus University', u'deCODE genetics/Amgen', u'Institute of Biomedical and Neural Engineering, School of Science and Engineering, Reykjavik University']]
[u'Debriefing of virtual patient encounters: Systematic collection of nursing students clinical reasoning activities', ['Carina Georg', 'Elisabet Welin Henriksson', 'Maria Jirwe', 'Johanna Ulfvarson', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2015-06-12', u'Background. Studies have shown that nursing students have challenges in translating and applying their theoretical knowledge in a clinical context. Virtual patients (VPs) have been proposed as an adequate learning and assessment activity to improve clinical reasoning. Although feedback and debriefing are essential aspects to foster learning in medical simulation, few studies have explored systematic and theory anchored ways of supporting feed forward and debriefing based on student activity collected in a systematic manner. Objective. The aim of this study was to develop a systematic approach for collecting the nursing students\u2019 clinical reasoning artifacts as they encounter virtual patients. Method. The Outcome-Present-State-Test (OPT) model for clinical reasoning was used as the starting point since it is an internationally common model used by faculty to plan for and design learning activities in nursing education (Pesut & Herman, 1999). Two virtual patients were developed using the virtual patient nursing design model vpNDM (Georg &Zary, 2014). Nighty-five participants from undergraduate nursing education encountered the VPs and the intervention was composed of the exploration of methods for tracking and collecting the participants\u2019 clinical reasoning artifacts. Results. An instrument to collect the students\u2019 clinical reasoning was developed. Artifacts are collected during the whole virtual patient encounter. The aspects collected are related to clinical judgment, nursing action, outcome and present states, cue logic and the client in context. The empirical demonstrated that the instrument was able to collect and expose quantitative and qualitative aspects of the students\u2019 clinical reasoning. Conclusions. A method to systematically collect aspects of clinical reasoning during a virtual patient driven learning activity would allow purposeful feed forward and provide the necessary information for constructive debriefing sessions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1172/', ['Nursing', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska Institutet', u'Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'Age, growth and reproduction of the Galapagos sailfin grouper Mycteroperca olfax (Jenyns, 1840): an overdue and needed comprehensive baseline', ['Paolo Usseglio', 'Alan M. Friedlander', 'Edward E. DeMartini', 'Anna Schuhbauer', 'Pelayo Salinas de Leon'], u'2015-06-12', u'The Galapagos Sailfin grouper, Mycteroperca olfax, locally known as bacalao and listed as vulnerable by IUCN, is culturally, economically, and ecologically important to the Galapagos archipelago and its people. It is regionally endemic to the Eastern Tropical Pacific, and, while an important fishery resource that has shown substantial declines in recent years, to date no effective management regulations are in place to ensure the sustainability of its Galapagos fishery. Previous estimates of longevity and size of maturity for bacalao are inconsistent with estimates for congeners, which questions the accuracy of prior estimates. We set out to rigorously assess the age, growth, and reproductive biology of bacalao in order to provide more accurate life history information to inform more effective fisheries management for this species. The oldest fish in our sample was 24 years old, which is 2-3 times greater than previously reported estimates of longevity. Parameter estimates for the von Bertalanffy growth function (k= 0.07, L\u221e= 119.1 cm TL, and to= -2.33 years) show bacalao to grow much slower and obtain substantially larger asymptotic maximum length than previous studies. Mean size at maturity (as female) was estimated at 61.1 cm TL, corresponding to an age of 7.8 years. As a protogynous hermaphrodite, size at sex change (from adult female to adult male) occurred at 83.7 cm TL, corresponding to 15.2 years of age. We found that sex ratios were extremely female biased (0.015 M:1F), with a large majority of the individuals in our experimental catch being immature (73%). Our results show that bacalao grow slower, live longer, and mature at a much larger size and greater age than previously thought, with very few mature males in the population. These findings have key implications for the fishery of this valuable species and urge for a long-due species management plan to ensure its long-term sustainability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1173/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Fisheries Ecology Research Lab, University of Hawai\u2019i at Manoa', u'Fundacion In-nova Castilla la Mancha', u'Pristine Seas, National Geographic Society', u'Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center, Fisheries Research and Monitoring Division, Fish Biology and Stock Assessment Branch \u2013 Life History Program, NOAA Fisheries', u'Hawai\u2019i Institute of Marine Biology, School of Earth Science and Technology, University of Hawai\u2019i', u'Fisheries Centre, University of British Columbia', u'Department of Marine Sciences, Charles Darwin Research Foundation']]
[u'The impact of Docker containers on the performance of genomic pipelines', ['Paolo Di Tommaso', 'Emilio Palumbo', 'Maria Chatzou', 'Pablo Prieto', 'Michael L Heuer', 'Cedric Notredame'], u'2015-06-12', u'Genomic pipelines consist of several pieces of third party software and, because their experimental nature, frequent changes and updates are commonly necessary thus raising serious distribution and reproducibility issues. Docker containers technology offers an ideal solution, as it allows the packaging of pipelines in an isolated and self-contained manner. This makes it easy to distribute and execute pipelines in a portable manner across a wide range of computing platforms. Thus the question that arises is to what extent the use of Docker containers might affect the performance of these pipelines. Here we address this question and conclude that Docker containers have only a minor impact on the performance of common genomic pipelines, which is negligible when the executed jobs are long in terms of computational time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1171/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Comparative Bioinformatics, Bioinformatics and Genomics Program, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG)', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF)', u'Bioinformatics Research, National Marrow Donor Program']]
[u'New occurrences of fossilized feathers: systematics, taphonomy, and paleoecology of the Santana Formation of the Araripe Basin (Cretaceous), NE, Brazil', ['Gustavo M. E. M. Prado', 'Luiz Eduardo Anelli', 'Guilherme Raffaelli Romero'], u'2015-06-11', u'Feathers are the most complex and diversified integuments in vertebrates. Their complexity are provided by the different forms and functions, and they occur both in non-avian and avian-dinosaurs. Despite their rareness, feathers are found throughout the world, and the Santana Formation (comprised by Crato and Romualdo formations) of the Araripe Basin is responsible for the majority of these records in Brazil. Most occurrences is consisted by isolated feathers, where downy-feathers is the recurrent morphotype, two coelurosaurs and one enantiornithe bird. The sedimentary deposition of this unit is consisted by a lacustrine (Crato Fm) and lagoonal (Romualdo Fm) environments, where reducing conditions prevailed, precluding the activity of bottom dwelling organisms that favored the exquisite preservation. Despite the arid and hot conditions during the Cretaceous, life teemed in the adjacency of both paleolakes, however, feathered non-avian dinosaurs were not found yet in the Crato Member. By the great diversity of life that existed in the paleolake surroundings, is possible to recognize, through the fossil record, that a complex and diversified trophic chain was well established during the time period of sedimentation of this unit. When the remains reached the bottom of the paleolakes, the subsequent isolation from the environment allowed their preservation. In this work, three fossilized feathers, consisted of two downy and one contour feather, extracted from the laminated limestone of the Crato Member of the Santana Formation, were described and identified according to morphological and evolutionary models. We also used the terminology commonly applied to extant organisms. Relying on the fossil record of this unit and the adjacencies formations and basins (by autochthonous condition), taxonomic inferences can be made when the lowest hierarchy level is considered, and hence, is possible to propose the plausible taxa that could bear these elements. Taphonomic and paleoecological aspects, such as the preservation of these structures, and the presence of dinosaurs, were also reviewed, as well as the future perspectives about the study of these elements. Despite the virtual low significance, the pragmatical study of fossilized feathers, can help with the understanding of the evolution and paleobiology of dinosaurs, especially on the South Hemisphere.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1170/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Geologia Sedimentar e Ambiental, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo', u'Programa de P\xf3s-Gradua\xe7\xe3o em Gequ\xedmica e Geotect\xf4nica, Instituto de Geoci\xeancias, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo']]
[u'Distribution, biomass and phenology of Zostera noltei meadows in the Northern lagoon of Tunis in the summer of 2014', ['Imen Ben Souissi', 'Abdessalem Shili'], u'2015-06-11', u'Seagrass meadows of Zostera noltei are widely distributed over the coasts of Tunisia and represent relatively dominant populations in the Northern lagoon of Tunis. This brackish environment was the subject of a plan of restoration and development implemented in the mid 1980\u2019s to deal with problems of eutrophication. This work is a contribution to the characterization of seagrass meadows of Z. noltei in the Northern lagoon of Tunis, with (i) mapping meadows along 36 equally spaced and well distributed transects, (ii) measuring the biomass with its two components, above and below-ground, in representative stations of different types of seagrass meadows, and (iii) the observation of phenological characteristics of the plant. The results show that Z. noltei meadows grow over 40% of the total area of the lagoon. They spread gradually to the Southern part of the lagoon where they are able to survive and to thrive. The total biomass in the North lagoon of Tunis was about 2512 tons of DW in June of 2014. Most of this biomass comes from dense beds with cover of 50 to 90%. The phenological characteristic analysis shows that the mean density is about 1830 shoots/m\xb2, the average length and average width of the leaves are 26.6 cm (SD = 6.9) and 1.8 mm (SD = 0.2), respectively. Depending on the type of cover, the total length of rhizomes varies between 2.3 and 40.6 m/m\xb2 and the average number of leaves/shoot is between 3.1 and 4.5 (SD = 0.4). Flowering, which begins in April, continues until the end of August. The flowering rate varies between stations, ranging from 0 to 16% in June of 2014. The study should be extended to other seasons to better understand the characteristics and dynamics of Z. noltei meadows, which have a very important role in the restoration and the ecological balance of the Northern lagoon of Tunis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1169/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'National Agronomic Institute of Tunisia (INAT), Research Unit of Aquatic Resources & Ecosystems, University of Carthage']]
[u'A native beetle fond of exotic plants. Characteristics that contribute to invasive success in Costelytra zealandica (Scarabaeidae: Melolonthinae)', ['Marie-Caroline Lefort', 'Stephane Boyer', 'Jessica Vereijssen', 'Travis R Glare', 'Susan P Worner'], u'2015-06-11', u'Widespread replacement of native ecosystems by productive land sometimes results in the outbreak of a native species. In New Zealand, the introduction of exotic pastoral plants has resulted in the diet alteration of the native coleopteran species, Costelytra zealandica (White) (Scarabaeidae) such that this insect has reached the status of pest. In contrast, C. brunneum (Broun), a close congeneric species, has not developed such a relationship with these \u2018new\u2019 host plants. This study investigated the feeding preferences and fitness performance of these two closely related scarab beetles to increase fundamental knowledge about the mechanisms responsible for the development of invasive characteristics in native insects. To this end the feeding preferences of larvae of both Costelytra species were investigated under controlled conditions and the survival and larval growth of the invasive species C. zealandica were compared on native and exotic host plants. Costelytra zealandica, when sampled from exotic pastures, was unable to fully utilise its ancestral native host and showed better performance on exotic plants. In contrast, C. zealandica sampled from native grasslands did not perform significantly better on either host and showed similar feeding preferences to C. brunneum. This study suggests the possibility of strong intra-specific variation, in the ability of C. zealandica to exploit native or exotic plants, supporting the hypothesis that such ability underpins the existence of distinct host-races in this species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1168/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Bio-Protection Research Centre', u'Department of Natural Sciences, Unitec Institute of Technology', u'Insect behaviour and Ecology, The New Zealand Institute for Plant & Food Research Limited']]
[u'Recent monitoring data of Posidonia oceanica meadows distributed along the Apulian coasts (Eastern-Central Mediterranean Sea) according to the 2000/60 EC Directive', ['Gaetano Costantino', 'Nicola Ungaro', 'Massimo Blonda', 'Marina Mariani', 'Daniela Battista', 'Anna Maria Pastorelli', 'Rosanna La Mantia', 'Viviana Casale', 'Vito Perrino', 'Enrico Barbone', 'Michele De Gioia', 'Giorgio Assennato'], u'2015-06-10', u'According to the Water Framework Directive (WFD), a specific monitoring of Posidonia oceanica meadows was carried out along the Apulian coasts by the Regional Agency for the Environmental Prevention and Protection (ARPA Puglia). A total of 17 sites, 11 in the Southern Adriatic Sea and 6 in the Northern Ionian Sea were investigated during two consecutive monitoring cycles (2009-2011 and 2012-2014). Sampling procedures as well as laboratory analyses (phenology and lepidochronology) were carried out according to a common methodological protocol shared at Italian national level (D.M. 260/2010) for the final ecological classification (sensu WFD) using the PREI index. In each meadow, two sampling stations were investigated by scuba divers at the fixed depth of 15 m and in correspondence of the lower bathymetric distribution limit. For each station, 9 shoots counting (40x40 cm square) and 3 covering estimates (around 5 m of radius) were carried out. In addition, 18 orthotropic shoots and a sediment sample were collected as well as some other bio-ecological data (meadow continuity, dead matte presence, bottom type, invasive algae presence, flowering, disturbance sources, lower limit type and depth). The results showed that 29% of sites were classified as \u201cGOOD\u201d, 59% were classified as \u201dMODERATE\u201d while the remaining 12% as \u201cPOOR\u201d, with a general slight improvement of the classification in the last monitoring cycle (2012-2014). Although the ecological quality status of the Apulian Posidonia oceanica meadows (summarized by the PREI index values) reflects the distribution of anthropic pressures on the coast (harbours, industrial and urbanized areas, river\u2019s outlets) along a latitudinal gradient, the classification based on the rules (reference conditions and EQR boundaries for the PREI index) reported in the Italian law (D.M. 260/2010) seems to underestimate the real ecological status. Consequently, a revision of both the actual reference conditions and EQR boundaries is suggested for the BQE Posidonia oceanica in the Apulian marine waters, in order to taking account of the environmental features of two different marine basins as the south-western Adriatic Sea and the north-western Ionian Sea.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1068/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Provincial Department of Bari - DAP Bari, Regional Agency for Environmental Prevenction and Protection - Arpa Puglia', u'Scientific Direction, Regional Agency for Environmental Prevenction and Protection - Arpa Puglia', u'General Direction, Regional Agency for Environmental Prevenction and Protection - Arpa Puglia']]
[u'Assessment of Posidonia oceanica status along the north Croatian coast (Adriatic Sea)', ['Ivan Guala', 'Ljiljana Ivesa', 'Patrik Krstinic', 'Zrinka Jakl', 'Milena Sijan', 'Mosor Prvan', 'Maya Sertic', 'Matea Spika', 'Vedran Nikolic', 'Ante Zuljevic', 'Ivan Cvitkovic', 'Giuseppe Di Carlo', 'Zeljka Rajkovic'], u'2015-06-09', u'Monitoring of Posidonia oceanica was carried out in the framework of the MedMPAnet Project in eight meadows not formerly explored in an area along the north coast of Croatia (Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, Northern Adriatic Sea). The survey was aimed to collect preliminary data as a baseline for future surveillance cycles of the priority habitat 1120 "Posidonia beds" within the framework of the National Monitoring Programme, according to the requirements of the EU Habitats Directive. Fieldwork was carried out in 2013 and 2014 through direct SCUBA diving surveys. At each site, general information on coastal features and potential human pressures was recorded and the following descriptors of meadow conditions were assessed at three depth ranges: shoot density, percent coverage of Posidonia oceanica, dead matte and substrate type; depth and type of lower limits were also recorded for each meadow. Two meadows, located in the island of Rab (Uvala Planka and Frkanj), were investigated during both years of survey in order to test any differences due to the methodological approach we used. Overall, results indicated signs of distress for several meadows. Density ranged from 355\xb122 to 629\xb121 shoot per m2 at shallow stations (<10 m depth), from 141\xb18 to 324\xb123 shoot per m2 at intermediate depth (about 15 m), and from 79\xb15 to 157\xb110 shoot per m2 at the lower limit. Regression was also testified by high coverage of dead matte (locally >40%) especially at the lower limit, which was regressive in four meadows and in no case did it exceed 27 meters in depth. The temporal comparison provided consistent results between the two years for investigation of shoot density, at all sites and throughout the bathymetric range. However, some changes were detected in the deepest portions of both meadows in the coverage of Posidonia oceanica (lower than 50% in 2014). Further monitoring and research campaigns are recommended to improve the level of knowledge on the status of meadows in this area, to develop a baseline for assessing trends on a long-term temporal scale as requested by Habitats Directive, and to shed light on the relevance of both environmental and anthropogenic factors in determining the health status of the meadows. Intercalibration among operators is also suggested to ensure reliable data in implementing the National Monitoring Programme.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/983/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'International Marine Centre', u'Ru\u0111er Bo\u0161kovi\u0107 Institute, Center for Marine Research', u'Public Institution Priroda', u'Association for Nature, Environment and Sustainable Development Sunce', u'Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries', u'WWF Mediterranean Programme Office', u'National Technical Coordinator of the MedMPAnet Project']]
[u'Monitoring of Posidonia oceanica meadows in the Tela\u0161\u0107ica Nature Park (Croatia)', ['Zrinka Jakl', 'Milena Sijan', 'Mosor Prvan', 'Maya Sertic', 'Vanja Cavrak', 'Lorena Derezanin', 'Stefano Boi', 'Ivan Guala'], u'2015-06-09', u'Monitoring of marine priority habitats has been recently undertaken in the Tela\u0161\u0107ica Nature Park (Croatia) in compliance with the management plan developed within the MedPAN South project. Assessment of the state of Posidonia oceanica meadows was made in 2011, 2012 and 2014, in five locations subjected to different anthropogenic pressure. The monitoring was mainly aimed to establish the presence of disturbance in locations that are highly frequented by recreational boaters. Using an empirical assessment of frequent boat use, meadows were defined as \u201canchoring\u201d (four locations - \u010cu\u0161ka Dumboka, Kobiljak, Lu\u010dica, Sestrica \u2013 that are potentially subjected to high pressure from boating activities) or \u201cno-anchoring\u201d (one location - Garmenjak - where boating activites are considered negligible since the area is not a preferred destination for boater). Structural descriptors of the meadows (i.e shoot density and the Conservation Index) were assessed at different sites at each location, by means of direct surveys in SCUBA diving. Results indicate clear signs of deterioration at the locations that are subjected to high pressure of anchoring. Overall, shoot density at the "no-anchoring" sites had significant higher values than the "anchoring" sites, by around 31% to 45% higher, over the three years of investigations. Changes in values of the Conservation Index were smaller; 10% to 15% higher in \u201cno-anchoring\u201d than "anchoring" sites. Among the \u201canchoring\u201d locations, \u010cu\u0161ka Dumboka and Kobiljak showed the lowest values of shoot density and Conservation Index (as a consequence of the highest cover of dead matte), over the three years of monitoring. The combined use of the two descriptors seems to be effective in obtaining information on the condition of the seagrass meadows and strengthens the a priori assumption that mechanical disturbance of anchors affects P. oceanica adversely by enhancing regression of the meadows. The management authority is now implementing a series of actions to reduce human pressures and promote a more sustainable approach to nautical tourism. Monitoring of boating frequency and activities (number and size of boats, anchor type), is recommended to assess the effective pressure of anchoring and understand whether the different conditions of meadows under pressure correspond to the different levels of disturbance or if other factors along with anchoring are influencing the seagrass beds.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/984/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Association for Nature, Environment and Sustainable Development Sunce', u'International Marine Centre']]
[u'Reconstructing the evolutionary and ecological history of the sea skaters Halobates spp. (Heteroptera: Gerridae)', ['Cristian Roman Palacios', 'Daniela Moraga Lopez'], u'2015-06-08', u'The genus Halobates includes the only five insect species that have been successful in a pelagic marine environment. Different scenarios of independent colonization events of that environment have been proposed, considering the appearance of pelagic distribution in several non-sister clades in the phylogeny of the genus. In this paper, we aim to update the phylogenetic hypothesis under the criterion of Bayesian inference, calibrate a molecular clock using the only fossil described in the genus and also analyze the diversity pattern of the lineage since its divergence. High support values were found in the phylogenetic reconstruction, which tend to decrease with an increase of the distances from the root. Low supports for the most derived clades or relatively recent divergences cast doubt on the delimitation of some species. Although the divergence time for Halobates was estimated at 42.01 mya (\xb1 8.13) the emergence of the lineage probably happened a few million years before, so the estimated time of divergence probably also marked the start of diversification of the marine lineages of this genus. Since divergence, the richness of genus showed continuous linear growth for approximately 24.4 my, when the lineages began to diversify more quickly with a significantly lower extinction rate.The colonization of the pelagic environment which occurred nearly 42 mya, could also have been the starting point of the colonization of the marine pelagic environment when changes in their morphology, physiology and behaviour enabled them to exploit novel ecological niches. Ancestors of pelagic marine insects probably inhabited areas close to the seacoast more than 41 mya ago. The ecological history of Halobates was probably not limited to a pair of open water colonization events as indicated by earlier proposals. We hypothesize instead that at least three independent events of open water colonization by Halobates species have occurred. In this sense, the ecological character of coastal or pelagic distribution is considered to be a homoplasic character without direct implications on the net diversification of Halobates.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1164/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Facultad de Ciencias Naturales y Exactas, Universidad del Valle']]
[u'Maternal and paternal psychopathological risk in children with Non Organic Failure to Thrive', ['Luca Cerniglia', 'Silvia Cimino'], u'2015-06-07', u'Recent researches have underlined that maternal psychopathology can be considered as a crucial risk factor for the development and maintaining of several emotional behavioural problems in children. While several researches have dealt prominently with maternal psychopathological risk and with their outcomes on NOFTT, limited attention has been given in literature to fathers\u2019 involvement in caregiving and to their psychological profiles, while this issue may represent a significant risk and/or protective factor. The present longitudinal study is aimed to further elaborate on the impact of the maternal psychological functioning on the adaptation of the child between the first and second childhood, focusing also on the paternal involvement in caregiving.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1162/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychology, International Telematic University Uninettuno', u'Faculty of Psychology, Sapienza University of Rome']]
[u'Towards a global dataset of seagrass occurrences: current progress, knowledge gaps and challenges', ['Lauren Weatherdon', 'Corinne S Martin', 'Chris Mcowen', 'Hannah Thomas'], u'2015-06-05', u'For a number of years, the United Nations Environment Programme World Conservation Monitoring Centre (UNEP-WCMC) has collaborated with Dr. Frederic Short (SeagrassNet, University of New Hampshire) and other seagrass experts worldwide to compile a global georeferenced dataset of seagrass occurrences. More than 184,000 point and polygon records have been collated to date. The GIS dataset and associated metadata can be downloaded from UNEP-WCMC\u2019s Ocean Data Viewer, thereby providing ready-for-use information on the location of this critical habitat to policy-makers, conservationists, and scientists. This knowledge is necessary to inform better decisions regarding marine conservation (e.g., marine spatial planning) and to ensure the sustainable use of our ocean\u2019s resources (e.g., ecosystem service valuation). This and other similar datasets on the distribution of key marine habitats\u2014e.g., saltmarshes, mangroves, and corals (also curated and distributed by UNEP-WCMC)\u2014have been used in numerous global and regional studies that examine the status of sensitive marine biodiversity and related impacts. Occurrence datasets such as these are also used to inform predictive models aimed at filling spatial gaps in knowledge. Moreover, such a global dataset can support analyses that explore the contribution of seagrass and other \u2018blue carbon\u2019 ecosystems (e.g. saltmarsh, mangrove) to carbon sequestration, thereby aiding climate change mitigation. As part of an interactive session, we will: 1. Present current progress towards collating a global dataset of seagrass occurrences, highlighting the achievements of such collaborative endeavours and the relevance of this dataset to global science, conservation, and policy initiatives; and 2. Facilitate a discussion with Mediterranean seagrass experts to develop recommendations for addressing the knowledge gaps and challenges (e.g. licensing issues) that have been identified. In particular, this session will focus on improving our collective knowledge of the spatial distribution of seagrass ecosystems in data-poor regions of the Mediterranean by drawing from local and regional expertise. Given the importance of these ecosystems to sustaining marine biodiversity, regulating carbon, and supporting global fisheries, such contributions towards developing a comprehensive and accurate dataset can help to ensure that scientists, conservationists, policy-makers and other decision-makers have the appropriate information to make better-informed analyses and decisions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1161/', ['Biodiversity'], [u'Marine Programme, UNEP World Conservation Monitoring Centre', u'Nippon Foundation - University of British Columbia (NF-UBC) Nereus Program']]
[u'Smart learning: A search-based approach to rank change and defect prone classes', ['Carol V Alexandru', 'Annibale Panichella', 'Sebastiano Panichella', 'Alberto Bacchelli', 'Harald C Gall'], u'2015-06-05', u'Research has yielded approaches for predicting future changes and defects in software artifacts, based on historical information, helping developers in effectively allocating their (limited) resources. Developers are unlikely able to focus on all predicted software artifacts, hence the ordering of predictions is important for choosing the right artifacts to concentrate on. We propose using a Genetic Algorithm (GA) for tailoring prediction models to prioritize classes with more changes/defects. We evaluate the approach on two models, regression tree and linear regression, predicting changes/defects between multiple releases of eight open source projects. Our results show that regression models calibrated by GA significantly outperform their traditional counterparts, improving the ranking of classes with more changes/defects by up to 48%. In many cases the top 10% of predicted classes can contain up to twice as many changes or defects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1160/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Informatics, University of Zurich', u'SERG, Delft University of Technology']]
[u'The neurophysiological response to manual therapy and its analgesic implications: A narrative review', ['Andrew D Vigotsky', 'Ryan P Bruhns'], u'2015-06-05', u'Manual therapy has long been a component of physical rehabilitation programs, especially to treat those in pain. The mechanisms of manual therapy, however, are not fully understood, and it has been suggested that its pain modulatory effects are of neurophysiological origin, and may be mediated by the descending modulatory circuit. Therefore, the purpose of this review is to examine the neurophysiological response of different types of manual therapy, in order to better understand the neurophysiological mechanisms behind each therapy\u2019s analgesic effects. It is concluded that different forms of manual therapy elicit analgesic effects via different mechanisms. Additionally, future avenues of mechanistic research pertaining to manual therapy are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/996/', ['Neuroscience', 'Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Kinesiology Program, Arizona State University', u'Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Arizona State University']]
[u'An approach to improve the efficiency of apriori algorithm', ['Sakshi Aggarwal', 'Ritu Sindhu'], u'2015-06-05', u'Association rule mining has a great importance in data mining. Apriori is the key algorithm in association rule mining. Many approaches are proposed in past to improve Apriori but the core concept of the algorithm is same i.e. support and confidence of item sets and previous studies finds that classical Apriori is inefficient due to many scans on database. In this paper, we are proposing a method to improve Apriori algorithm efficiency by reducing the database size as well as reducing the time wasted on scanning the transactions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1159/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning'], [u'CSE Department, SGT Institute of Engineering & Technology']]
[u'Unexpectedly high precision of consumer-grade GPS units for small-scale animal movement studies', ['Greg A Breed', 'Paul M Severns'], u'2015-06-04', u'Consumer-grade GPS units are a staple of modern field ecology, but the relatively large error radii reported by manufacturers (up to 10 meters) ostensibly precludes their utility in measuring fine-scale movement of small animals such as insects. Here we demonstrate that for data collected at fine spatio-temporal scales, these devices can produce exceptionally precise data on step-length and movement patterns of small animals. With an understanding of the properties of GPS error and how it arises, it is possible, using a simple field protocol, to use consumer grade GPS units to collect step-length data for the movement of small animals that introduces a median of 11 cm of error. Such small errors make these inexpensive units useful for measuring insect and other small animal movements on small to intermediate scales on budgets that are orders of magnitude lower than the survey-grade units used in past studies. As an additional advantage, these units are much simpler to operate and insect or other small animal trackways can be collected more quickly than either survey-grade units or more traditional ruler / gird approaches.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1158/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Institute of Arctic Biology, University of Alaska', u'Harvard Forest, Harvard University', u'Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Oregon State University']]
[u'Effects of library size variance, sparsity, and compositionality on the analysis of microbiome data', ['Sophie J Weiss', 'Zhenjiang Xu', 'Amnon Amir', 'Shyamal Peddada', 'Kyle Bittinger', 'Antonio Gonzalez', 'Catherine Lozupone', 'Jesse R. Zaneveld', 'Yoshiki Vazquez-Baeza', 'Amanda Birmingham', 'Rob Knight'], u'2015-06-03', u'Background: Data from 16S amplicon sequencing present challenges to ecological and statistical interpretation. In particular, library sizes often vary over several ranges of magnitude, and the data contains many zeroes. Also, since researchers sample a small fraction of the ecosystem, the observed sequences are relative abundances and therefore the data is compositional. Here we evaluate methods developed in the literature to address these three challenges in the context of normalization and ordination analysis, which is commonly used to visualize overall differences in bacterial composition between sample groups, and differential abundance analysis, which tests for significant differences in the abundances of microbes between sample groups. Results. Effects of normalization on ordination: Most normalization methods successfully cluster samples according to biological origin when many microbes differ between the groups. For datasets in which clusters are subtle and/or sequence depth varies greatly between samples, or for metrics in which rare microbes play an important role, rarefying outperforms other techniques. For abundance-based metrics, rarefying as well as alternatives like DESeq and metagenomeSeq\u2019s cumulative sum scaling (CSS), seem to correctly cluster samples according to biological origin. With these normalization alternatives, clustering by sequence depth as a confounding variable must be checked for, especially for low library sizes. Effects of differential abundance testing model choice: We build on previous work to evaluate each statistical method using rarefied as well as unrarefied data. When the mean library sizes in the differential abundance groups differ by more than 2-3x, or the library sizes differ in distribution, our simulation studies reveal that each statistical method improved in its false positive rate when samples were rarefied. However, when the difference in library size mean is less than 2-3x, and the library sizes are similarly distributed, rarefying results in a loss of power for all methods. In this case, DESeq2 has the highest power to compare groups, especially for less than 20 samples per group. MetagenomeSeq\u2019s fitZIG is a faster alternative to DESeq2, although it does worse for smaller sample sizes (<50 samples per group) and tends to have a higher false positives rate. For larger sample sizes (>50 samples), rarefying paired with a non-parametric test, such as the Mann-Whitney test, can also yield equally high sensitivity. Based on these results, we recommend a stepwise procedure in which sample groups are first tested for significant differences in library size. If there is a significant difference, we recommend rarefying with a non-parametric test. Otherwise, DESeq2 and/or fitZIG offer increased sensitivity, especially for rare OTUs and small sample numbers. Conclusions. These findings help guide which technique to use depending on the data characteristics of a given study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1157/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biological Engineering, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Department of Pediatrics, University of California San Diego', u'Biostatistics and Computational Biology Branch, NIEHS, NIH', u'Department of Microbiology, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine', u'Department of Medicine, University of Colorado', u'Department of Microbiology, Oregon State University', u'Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, University of California San Diego', u'Department of Computer Science & Engineering, University of California San Diego']]
[u'Kernel probability estimation for binomial and multinomial data', ['Greg Jensen'], u'2015-06-02', u'Kernel-based smoothers have enjoyed considerable success in the estimation of both probability densities and event frequencies. Existing procedures can be modified to yield a similar kernel-based estimator of instantaneous probability over the course of a binomial or multinomial time series. The resulting nonparametric estimate can be described in terms of one bandwidth per outcome alternative, facilitating both the understanding and reporting of results relative to more sophisticated methods for binomial outcome estimation. Also described is a method for sample size estimation, which in turn can be used to obtain credible intervals for the resulting estimate given mild assumptions. One application of this analysis is to model response accuracy in tasks with heterogeneous trial types. An example is presented from a study of transitive inference, showing how kernel probability estimates provide a method for inferring response accuracy during the first trial following training. This estimation procedure is also effective in describing the multinomial responses typical in the study of choice and decision making. An example is presented showing how the procedure may be used to describe changing distributions of choices over time when eight response alternatives are simultaneously available.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1156/', ['Statistics'], [u'Neuroscience, Columbia University Medical Center']]
[u'Mammalian bone palaeohistology: new data and a survey', ['Christian Kolb', 'Torsten M. Scheyer', 'Kristof Veitschegger', 'Analia M. Forasiepi', 'Eli Amson', 'Alexandra A.E. van der Geer', 'Lars W. van den Hoek Ostende', 'Shoji Hayashi', 'Marcelo R. Sanchez-Villagra'], u'2015-06-02', u'The interest in mammalian palaeohistology has increased dramatically in the last two decades. Starting in 1849 via descriptive approaches, it has been demonstrated that bone tissue and vascularisation types correlate with several biological variables such as ontogenetic stage, growth rate, and ecology. Mammalian bone displays a large variety of bone tissues and vascularisation patterns reaching from lamellar or parallel-fibred to fibrolamellar or woven-fibred bone, depending on taxon and individual age. Here we systematically review the knowledge and methods on mammalian bone and palaeohistology and discuss potential future research fields and techniques. We present new data on the bone microstructure of two extant marsupial species and of several extinct continental and island placental mammals. Three juvenile specimens of the dwarf island hippopotamid Hippopotamus minor from the Late Pleistocene of Cyprus show reticular to plexiform fibrolamellar bone. The island murid Mikrotia magna from the Late Miocene of Gargano, Italy displays parallel-fibred primary bone with reticular vascularisation being pervaded by irregular secondary osteons in the central part of the cortex. Leithia sp., the dormouse from the Pleistocene of Sicily, is characterised by a primary bone cortex consisting of lamellar bone and low vascularisation. The bone cortex of the fossil continental lagomorph Prolagus oeningensis and three fossil species of insular Prolagus displays parallel-fibred primary bone and reticular, radial as well as longitudinal vascularisation. Typical for large mammals, secondary bone in the giant rhinocerotoid Paraceratherium sp. from the Miocene of Turkey is represented by dense Haversian bone. The skeletochronological features of Sinomegaceros yabei, a large-sized deer from the Pleistocene of Japan closely related to Megaloceros, indicate a high growth rate. These examples and the critical summary of existing data show how bone microstructure can reveal essential information on life history evolution. The bone tissue and the skeletochronological data of the sampled island species show that there is no universal modification of bone tissue and life history specific to insular species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1155/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Histology'], [u'Pal\xe4ontologisches Institut und Museum, Universit\xe4t Z\xfcrich', u'Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cient\xedficas y T\xe9cnicas, Instituto Argentino de Nivolog\xeda, Glaciolog\xeda y Ciencias Ambientales, Centro Cient\xedfico y Tecnol\xf3gico', u'Department of Geology, Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Department of Paleontology and Historical Paleontology, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Osaka Museum of Natural History']]
[u'Measuring the value of the social network: analysis, quantitative approach, and application', ['Sujata Jindal', 'Ritu Sindhu'], u'2015-06-02', u'Social networks are growing day by day. Users of the social networks are generating values for these networks. All the users can\u2019t be considered equal as they have different social network impact value. In this paper we analyze the social impact of a user and propose a method to estimate an individual\u2019s worth to a social network in terms of impact. The mathematical evaluations show the effectiveness of our method. Based on the proposed method many applications can be built taking into consideration the impact any individual\u2019s social profile has. We have tried to make various social data attributes more valuable and meaningful.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1154/', ['Data Science', 'Network Science and Online Social Networks'], [u'Department of Computer Science Engineering, SGT Institute of Engineering and Technology']]
[u'1001 - A tool for binary representations of unordered multistate characters (with examples from genomic data)', ['Evgeny V Mavrodiev'], u'2015-06-02', u'In modern molecular systematics, matrices of unordered multistate characters, such as DNA sequence alignments, are used for analysis with no further re-coding procedures nor any a priori determination of character polarity. Here we present 1001, a simple freely available Python-based tool that helps re-code matrices of non-additive characters as different types of binary matrices. Despite to the historical basis, our analytical approach to DNA and protein data has never been properly investigated since the beginning of the molecular age. The polarized matrices produced by 1001 can be used as the proper inputs for Cladistic analysis, as well as used as inputs for future three-taxon permutations. The 1001 binary representations of molecular data (not necessary polarized) may also be used as inputs for different parametric software. This may help to reduce the complicated sets of assumptions that normally precede either Bayesian or Maximum Likelihood analyses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1153/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Theory and Formal Methods'], [u'Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida']]
[u'Divergent thermal specialisation of two South African entomopathogenic nematodes', ['Matthew P Hill', 'Antoinette P Malan', 'John S Terblanche'], u'2015-06-01', u'Thermal physiology of entomopathogenic nematodes (EPN) is a critical aspect of field performance and fitness. Thermal limits for survival and activity, and the ability of these limits to adjust (i.e. show phenotypic flexibility) depending on recent thermal history, are generally poorly established, especially for non-model nematode species. Here we report the acute thermal limits for survival, and the thermal acclimation-related plasticity thereof for two key endemic South African EPN species, Steinernema yirgalemense and Heterorhabditis zealandica. Results including LT50 indicate S. yirgalemense (LT50 = 40.8\xb10.3\xb0C) has greater high temperature tolerance than H. zealandica (LT50 = 36.7\xb10.2\xb0C), but S. yirgalemense (LT50 = -2.4\xb10\xb0C) has poorer low temperature tolerance in comparison to H. zealandica (LT50 = -9.7\xb10.3\xb0C), suggesting these two EPN species occupy divergent thermal niches to one another.\nAcclimation had both negative and positive effects on temperature stress survival of both species, although the overall variation meant that many of these effects were non-significant. There was no indication of a consistent loss of plasticity with improved basal thermal tolerance for either species at upper lethal temperatures. At lower temperatures measured for H. zealandica, the 5\xb0C acclimation lowered survival until below -12.5\xb0C, where after it increased survival. Such results indicate that the thermal niche breadth of EPN species can differ significantly depending on recent thermal conditions, and should be characterized across a broad range of species to understand the evolution of thermal limits to performance and survival in this group.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1152/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Entomology', 'Parasitology'], [u'DST-NRF Centre of Excellence for Invasion Biology, Department of Conservation Ecology and Entomology, Faculty of AgriSciences, Stellenbosch University', u'Department of Conservation Ecology and Entomology, Faculty of AgriSciences, Stellenbosch University']]
[u'Comments and corrections on 3D modeling studies of locomotor muscle moment arms in archosaurs', ['Karl Bates', 'Susannah C.R. Maidment', 'Emma R. Schachner', 'Paul M Barrett'], u'2015-06-01', u'In a number of recent studies we used computer modeling to investigate the evolution of muscle leverage (moment arms) and function in extant and extinct archosaur lineages (crocodilians, dinosaurs including birds and pterosaurs). These studies sought to quantify the level of disparity and convergence in muscle moment arms during the evolution of bipedal and quadrupedal posture in various independent archosaur lineages, and in doing so further our understanding of changes in anatomy, locomotion and ecology during the group\u2019s >250 million year evolutionary history. Subsequent work by others has led us to re-evaluate our models, which revealed a methodological error that impacted on the results obtained from the abduction-adduction and long-axis rotation moment arms in our published studies. In this paper we present corrected abduction-adduction and long axis rotation moment arms for all our models, and evaluate the impact of this new data on the conclusions of our previous studies. We find that, in general, our newly corrected data differed only slightly from that previously published, with very few qualitative changes in muscle moments (e.g. muscles originally identified as abductors remained abductors). As a result the majority of our previous conclusions regarding the functional evolution of key muscles in these archosaur groups are upheld.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1151/', ['Bioengineering', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Musculoskeletal Biology, University of Liverpool', u'Department of Earth Science and Engineering, Imperial College', u'Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, Louisiana State University', u'Department of Earth Sciences, The Natural History Museum']]
[u'Kinetic analysis of oil palm empty fruit bunch (OPEFB) pellets as feedstock for pyrolysis', ['Bemgba Bevan Nyakuma'], u'2015-06-01', u'The thermal behaviour and decomposition kinetics of pelletized oil palm empty fruit bunch (OPEFB) was investigated in this study using thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). The OPEFB pellets were heated from room temperature to 1000 \xbaC at different heating rates; 5, 10 and 20 \xb0C min-1 under inert atmosphere. Thermal degradation occurred in three steps; drying, devolatization and char decomposition. Subsequently, the Popescu method was applied to the TG/DTG data to determine the kinetic parameters of the OPEFB pellets. The activation energy, E, for different degrees of conversion, \u03b1 = 0.05 to 0.7 are 36.60 kJ/mol to 233.90 kJ/mol with high correlation R2 values. In addition, the drying and decomposition of lignin reactions displayed lower E values compared to the devolatization characterized by high E value of 233 kJ/mol at \u03b1 = 0.2. This indicates that the devolatization process is slower and requires higher energy requirement to reach completion than the other stages of thermal decomposition of the fuel under inert atmosphere. Keywords: decomposition, kinetics, oil palm, empty fruit bunch, pyrolysis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1150/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioengineering', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'Centre for Hydrogen Energy, Institute of Future Energy, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia']]
[u'Adhesive root hairs facilitate Posidonia oceanica seedling settlement on rocky substrates', ['Adriana Alagna', 'Tomas Vega Fernandez', "Giovanni D'Anna", 'Silvio Fici', 'Carlo Magliola', 'Fabio Badalamenti'], u'2015-06-01', u'Posidonia oceanica, the dominant Mediterranean seagrass, has been historically described as a species typically growing on mobile substrates whose development requires precursor communities. During more than 10 years of direct observations, we noticed that P. oceanica seedlings were often firmly anchored to rocky reefs, even at exposed sites. Thus, we analysed the ultrastructural features of seedling root systems to identify specific traits that may represent adaptations for early seedling anchorage on rocky bottoms. Subapical sections of adventitious roots were obtained from 2-3 months old specimens collected in the field and were observed at SEM revealing an extensive coverage of adhesive root hairs with a maximum length of 2400 \xb5m. Hairs were provided with an enlarged tips with a maximum width of 78.3 \xb5m, which extended the contact area between the hair tip and the substrate. To test whether adhesive root hairs may facilitate P. oceanica seedlings establishment on rocky substrates, a manipulative experiment was performed. 360 seedlings were reared for 5 months in a land-based culture facility under simulated natural hydrodynamic conditions to identify suitable substrates for early seedling anchorage. Two main substrate features were investigated: firmness (i.e., sand vs. rock) and complexity (i.e., size of interstitial spaces between rocks). Anchorage was strongly influenced by substrate firmness and occurred only on rocks through adhesion by sticky root hairs. Percentage of anchored seedlings on rocks was as high as 89%. The minimum force required to dislodge plantlets attached to rocky substrates reached 23.8 N, which would potentially allow many plantlets to overcome winter storms in the field. The ability of rocky substrates to retain seedlings increased with their complexity. The interstitial spaces between rocks provided appropriate microsites for seedling settlement, as seeds were successfully retained and a suitable substrate for anchorage was available. Adhesive root hairs allowed fast and strong seedling anchorage to consolidated substrates when the root system was not yet developed. This mechanism could favour plant recruitment on rocky substrates with respect to mobile ones, in contrast with traditional paradigms. Such an adaptation leads to hypothesize a new microsite driven bottleneck in P. oceanica seedling survival linked to substrate features.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1149/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u"CNR-IAMC, Istituto per l'Ambiente Marino Costiero", u'Dipartimento di Scienze Agrarie e Forestali, Universit\xe0 di Palermo', u'Saipem S.p.A.']]
[u'Best practices and processes for designing MOOC videos: a case study using edX courses', ['Ronny Sejersen', 'Peter Stedt', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2015-05-31', u'Background: MOOCs are \u201conline courses designed for large numbers of participants, that can be accessed by anyone anywhere as long as they have an internet connection, are open to everyone without entry qualifications, and offer a full/complete course experience online for free\u201d. Videos are usually a widely used resource in MOOCs and knowledge on different aspects that impacts the design and production of the videos is needed. Objective: To explore production aspects that can improve videos for MOOCs based on the video producers perspective Method: A qualitative case study was conducted, in Stockholm Sweden, among staff members in charge of the design and production of videos for MOOCs over a period of eighteen months. Data collection consisted in a series of field notes and journal conducted thought the development of three MOOCs (Explore statistics with R, Pragmatics randomized controlled trials in healthcare, Introduction to urology). Interpretive analysis aimed at revealing best practices and processed for designing MOOC videos. Results: The findings presented in this article consist of XX themes. (a) Time to establish a good relation between the faculty and video producers, (b) Storyboard driven production is preferred, (c) Technical affordances of the recording studio, (d) video length, source and faculty acting (e) Video editing process that allows faculty involvement Conclusions: Our findings provide an additional perspective to existing studies (Guo et al 2014, Alario-Hoyos et al 2014) with a focus on best practices and processes of benefits to video producers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1146/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska Institutet', u'University Library, Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'The e-examination ecosystem in healthcare education: Information and process models', ['Jayne Alfredsson', 'Ronny Sejersen', 'Natalia Stathakarou', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2015-05-29', u'Background: High stake assessments are an important component in all stages of healthcare education that validate learners\u2019 clinical performance but may also inform and promote the learning process. Informatics has been a driver to transform paper examinations to digital examinations (e-examinations) but knowledge about their efficient and effective application in the context of healthcare assessment is still limited. Objective: The aim of this study is therefore to investigate the main aspects of the examination process and information that may become more effective and efficient with the application of informatics. Method: With the use of a deductive approach, we wish to study four cases of e-assessment and develop a conceptual model to standardize the e-examination process. Results: Based on the four e-examination cases studied, we developed a common information model. To visualize the e-examination ecosystem we outlined different types of e-examination, the aspects composed in it, illustration of its processes, contextual components and stakeholders incorporated in it.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1145/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, LIME, Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'Patient empowered education and research: Integration Study on how to integrate Patient Generated Health Data in Quality Registers', ['Michael Fardis', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2015-05-29', u'Background: Healthcare is transformed by the usage of new technologies, like Wearable Devices (WD). Patient generated health data (PGHD) from WDs could be found useful in the management and the research of a chronic disease, like Multiple Sclerosis (MS). Objective: The objective of the study was to propose a model for the import of PGHD from WDs to the MS Quality Register (MS QR), the main resource for research on MS in Sweden. The study focused both on the medical data that is needed and on the technical challenges that exist in such an implementation. Methods: Design Science was adopted as a methodology. The context of the study chosen was the MS QR. Participants were interviewed for the technical part and a questionnaire was delivered in order to find the most meaningful PGHD for MS QR. Based on the results, an artifact was created and evaluated from the perspective of the MS QR stakeholders. Results: The survey was answered by 35 healthcare professionals. The results revealed the factors that WDs can help track for the monitoring of a disease like MS. The interviews revealed several challenges and opportunities, like the legislative or organizational difficulties, but also the opportunities that appear with initiatives towards healthcare innovation. The evaluation triggered an optimization of the technical integration model, demonstrating that simple solutions could solve complex problems. Conclusion: The import of PGHD in MS QR, is technically possible. Applications should also be added together with WDs monitoring. The choice of model to use, is strongly related to how the data will be used within the organization.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1144/', ['Neurology', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics (LIME), Centre for Learning and Knowledge (CLK), Karolinska Instituet']]
[u'Photos provide information on age, but not kinship, of Andean bear', ['Russell C Van Horn', 'Becky Zug', 'Robyn D Appleton', 'Ximena Velez-Liendo', 'Susanna L Paisley', 'Corrin LaCombe'], u'2015-05-29', u'Using photos of captive Andean bears of known age and pedigree, and photos of wild Andean bear cubs < 6 months old, we evaluated the degree to which visual information may be used to estimate bears\u2019 ages and assess their kinship. We demonstrate that the ages of Andean bear cubs \u2264 6 months old may be estimated from their size relative to their mothers with an average error of < 0.01 \xb1 13.2 days (SD; n = 14), and that ages of adults \u2265 10 years old may be estimated from the proportion of their nose that is pink with an average error of < 0.01 \xb1 3.5 years (n = 41). We also show that similarity among the bears\u2019 natural markings, as perceived by humans, is not associated with pedigree kinship among the bears (R2 < 0.001, N = 1,043, p = 0.499). Thus, researchers may use photos of wild Andean bears to estimate the ages of young cubs and older adults, but not to infer their kinship. Given that camera trap photos are one of the most readily available sources of information on large cryptic mammals, we suggest that similar methods be tested for use in other poorly understood species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1142/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Applied Animal Ecology, San Diego Zoo Institute for Conservation Research', u'Nelson Institute for Environmental Studies, University of Wisconsin \u2013 Madison', u'Department of Forest and Conservation Sciences, University of British Columbia', u'Spectacled Bear Conservation Society', u'Centro de Biodiversidad y Gen\xe9tica, Universidad Mayor de San Simon', u'Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology, University of Kent', u'Conservation Education, San Diego Zoo Institute for Conservation Research', u'Current affiliation, We Thrive Global']]
[u'Distribution, structure and state of seagrass habitats in the SW Black Sea (Burgas Bay, Bulgaria)', ['Dimitar Berov', 'Diana Deyanova', 'Stefania Klayn', 'Ventzislav Karamfilov'], u'2015-05-29', u'Seagrass habitats play an important role in maintaining the biodiversity and functions of coastal marine ecosystems of the Black Sea. \u0415utrophication pressures in the 1970s and 1980s had a severe impact on phytobenthic communities, including deterioration, decrease in geographical and depth distribution and disappearance from certain areas. The state of Zostera spp. habitats in the SW Black Sea has not been studied since the 1970s. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the current distribution, structure and overall condition of seagrasses in Burgas Bay, Bulgaria. Historical sites with seagrass meadows were surveyed by SCUBA diving between 2009 and 2014, using destructive sampling and georeferenced digital photogrammetry. Nutrient concentrations in water were measured seasonally at selected sites to study the effects of eutrophication on seagrasses. Seagrass biomass, shoot density, leaf length and leaf area index were measured. Species diversity and biomass of zoobenthic organisms were also determined. Community structure was analyzed with multivariate statistical methods based on photo and destructive samples.The geographical extent of the meadows was mapped in GIS on recent satellite images, then verified by georeferenced photo samples. Results indicate that most of the seagrass meadows reported in the area in the late 1970s are present today. A decrease in the depth limit of the habitat was established in areas under local eutrophication pressures. A clear depth-related change in community structure was observed, where Zostera noltei dominated the 1-3 m depth range, followed by a mixed Z. noltei \u2013 Zannichellia palustris - Zostera marina community (3-4 m) , and dominance of Z. marina between 4 and 7 m. Zoobenthic communities within seagrass meadows were dominated by the gastropods Bittium reticulatum and Rissoa sp., the bivalve Loripes lucinalis, and oligochaetes. Abundance and species richness, as well as faunal dominance were significantly higher in seagrass meadows than in adjacent unvegetated sediments. Biometric parameters of Z. noltei showed significant correlations with measured eutrophication pressures (nutrient concentrations, LUSI index, sediment organic matter content). The ecological quality status of selected meadows was evaluated by using a multimeric indicator based on Z. noltei phenology data, which also showed clear correlation with anthropogenic pressures.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1141/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Research, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences', u'Department of Ecology, Environment and Plant Sciences, Stockholm University']]
[u'Patch types in Posidonia oceanica meadows around Corsica: How can we use them in seascape ecology?', ['Arnaud Abadie', 'Marina Bonacorsi', 'Sylvie Gobert', 'Pierre Lejeune', 'Gerard Pergent', 'Christine Pergent-Martini'], u'2015-05-29', u'The meadows formed by the Mediterranean seagrass Posidonia oceanica are subjected to various natural (e.g., water movement, light availability, sedimentation) and anthropogenic (e.g., anchoring, trawling, fish farms, explosives) phenomena that erode them and create diverse types of patches. The assemblage of the P. oceanica matrix and these patches creates particular seascapes. On the basis of this assessment, we aimed to investigate the importance of the patch type in structuring P. oceanica seascapes and to offer new prospects in the large scale studies of seagrass meadows. Five sites encompassing large P. oceanica meadows ranging from 1.86 km\xb2 to 4.42 km\xb2 along the Corsican coast (France) were considered. Eleven patch types with different sizes, shapes and origins were identified using side scan sonar images (sonograms). Five were recognized as natural and five as anthropogenic. One can be of both origins. The resolution of the sonograms allowed to detect patches of various sizes ranging from 1 m\xb2 to 111 829 m\xb2. The relation between structural characteristics of patches and the whole seascape aspect was explored using seven landscape metrics relevant for the study of meadows patchiness (patch area, mean radius of gyration, area-weighted radius of gyration, coefficient of variation of the Euclidean nearest-neighbor distance, area-weighted perimeter-area ratio, landscape division index, number of patches). Only a small number of patch types appears to play the strongest role in the characterization of the P. oceanica seascapes. Furthermore, the use of seascape structures seems to be suitable for the development of new tools like indices for the assessment of human impacts on P. oceanica meadows. In this perspective we propose a new and simple index, the Patchiness Source Index (PaSI), to estimate the origin of the patchiness (natural or anthropogenic) for a given area. A landscape approach, as well as information on patch dynamic, should be integrated in the new indices that aim to assess the state of conservation of the whole P. oceanica ecosystem.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1139/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Station de Recherches Sous-marines et Oceanographiques, STARESO', u'EqEL \u2013 FRES 3041, UMR CNRS SPE 6134, University of Corsica', u'Laboratory of Oceanology, MARE Centre, University of Liege']]
[u'CRISPR-Cas9 in gene therapy: much control on breaking, little control on repairing', ['Kaveh Daneshvar'], u'2015-05-28', u'Recent advances in CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing tool have made great promises to basic and biomedical research as well as gene therapy. Efforts to make the CRISPR-Cas9 system applicable in gene therapy are largely focused on two aspects: 1) increasing the specificity of this system by eliminating off-target effects, and 2) optimizing in vivo delivery of the CRISPR-Cas9 DNA constructs to target cells and limiting the expression of Cas9 and gRNA to prevent toxicity immune responses. However, there is an unnoted but crucial consideration about the mode of DNA repair at the lesion caused by CRISPR-Cas9. In this commentary, I briefly highlight recent publications on in vivo use of the CRISPR-Cas9 system in gene therapy. I then discuss the undesired on-target DNA repair events that can occur as a result of the activity of CRISPR-Cas9. Overall, this commentary underscores the need for more study on controlled DNA repair in systems targeted with CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing tools.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/818/', ['Cell Biology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Medicine, Gastrointestinal Unit, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Building social networks: a Web microportal to promote ADHD monitoring', ['Luciano Seta', 'Antonella Chifari', 'Onofrio Di Giuseppe', 'Paola Denaro', 'Manuela Ferreira', 'Miguel A. Santos'], u'2015-05-28', u"The WHAAM (Web Health Application for Adhd Monitoring) project, funded by the European LLP program, aims at spreading a multimodal and comprehensive cognitive-behavioral treatment for the ADHD. The main deliverable of this project was the WHAAM app, a digital environment designed to support parents, teachers and health professionals in the monitoring children\u2019s behaviors throughout different contexts: home, school and social interaction with peers. A web microportal was developed to introduce potential users both to the methodology and the main characteristics underlying this environment. The aims of the microportal were to illustrate the use of the WHAAM application and describe the ideas underlying the WHAAM approach. The web interface is divided into two areas: the first, introduces users to a short tour in the core functionalities of the application, the latter guides users to keep information around four principal themes, which are ADHD overview, Observation, Intervention and Training. Each of them respects the main steps of an approach based on the careful analysis of the behavior's functions in the main life contexts of the child. This second area permits both horizontal and vertical navigation. In the first modality, users can explore the contents very quickly, obtaining a fresh and simple picture of the most important concepts of the approach used in the project. Otherwise, in the vertical one, users can examine in depth many ADHD resources, some of which are internal to the microportal, and other external. Authors have paid special attention to the use of a simple terminology, avoiding specialized and obscure terms and concepts. Besides, they carefully filtered any sensible information and examined ethical issues related to the health information management. The final version of the microportal will be available in four languages.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1136/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Ethical Issues', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute for Educational Technologies, National Research Council Italy', u'Escola Superior de Educa\xe7\xe3o do Porto, Instituto Polit\xe9cnico do Porto']]
[u'Is the Kidscreen-27 a valid measure of health-related quality of life in 10-year-old Norwegian children?', ['John Roger Andersen', 'Gerd Karin Natvig', 'Kristin Haraldstad', 'Turid Skrede', 'Eivind Aadland', 'Geir Kare Resaland'], u'2015-05-28', u"The aim of this study was to investigate the reliability and validity of the Norwegian Kidscreen-27 questionnaire, a measure of generic health-related quality of life, in 10 year-old children. The Kidscreen-27 consists of five domains and was validated in a sample of 56 school children (29 boys). The children completed the questionnaire at three different time points during two consecutive school days. For convergent validity, the study was powered to detect a statistically significant correlation coefficient of 0.4. Cronbach's alpha values ranged from 0.73 to 0.83. Floor effects were all zero and ceiling effects ranged from 1.7% to 23.7%. Intraclass correlation values over time ranged from 0.71 to 0.81. However, some individual variability over time occurred and was illustrated by Bland Altman plots. The domains of physical well-being, psychological well-being and autonomy & parents improved over time (Ps < 0.05), while social support and school environment domains did not. We assessed convergent validity using general life satisfaction scores obtained by administering the Cantrils Ladder. All the Kidscreen-27 domains were significantly associated with general life satisfaction (Spearman rank correlations ranged from 0.29 to 0.59, Ps < 0.05). In conclusion, the Norwegian version of Kidscreen-27 has good reliability and validity.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1134/', ['Nursing', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Faculty of Health Studies, Sogn og Fjordane University College', u'Centre of Health Research, F\xf8rde Hospital Trust', u'Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen', u'Department of Health and Nursing, University of Agder', u'Faculty of Teacher Education and Sport, Sogn og Fjordane University College']]
[u'Reassembly and co-crystallization of a family 9 processive endoglucanase from its component parts: Structural and functional significance of the intermodular linker', ['Svetlana Petkun', 'Inna Rozman Grinberg', 'Raphael Lamed', 'Sadanari Jindou', 'Tal Burstein', 'Oren Yaniv', 'Yuval Shoham', 'Linda J.W. Shimon', 'Edward A Bayer', 'Felix Frolow'], u'2015-05-28', u'Non-cellulosomal processive endoglucanase 9I (Cel9I) from Clostridium thermocellum is a modular protein, consisting of a family-9 glycoside hydrolase (GH9) catalytic module and two family-3 carbohydrate-binding modules (CBM3c and CBM3b), separated by linker regions. GH9 does not show cellulase activity when expressed without CBM3c and CBM3b and the presence of the CBM3c was previously shown to be essential for endoglucanase activity. Physical reassociation of independently expressed GH9 and CBM3c modules (containing linker sequences) restored 60-70% of the intact Cel9I endocellulase activity. However, the mechanism responsible for recovery of activity remained unclear. In this work we independently expressed recombinant GH9 and CBM3c with and without their interconnecting linker in Escherichia coli. We crystallized and determined the molecular structure of the GH9/linker-CBM3c heterodimer at a resolution of 1.68 \xc5 to understand the functional and structural importance of the mutual spatial orientation of the modules and the role of the interconnecting linker during their re-association. Enzyme activity assays and isothermal titration calorimetry were performed to study and compare the effect of the linker on the re-association. The results indicated that reassembly of the modules could also occur without the linker, albeit with only very low recovery of endoglucanase activity. We propose that the linker regions in the GH9/CBM3c endoglucanases are important for spatial organization and fixation of the modules into functional enzymes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1133/', ['Biotechnology'], [u'Department of Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology, The Daniella Rich Institute for Structural Biology, Tel Aviv University', u'Faculty of Science and Technology, Meijo University', u'Department of Biotechnology and Food Engineering, Technion-Israel Institute of Technology', u'Department of Chemical Research Support, The Weizmann Institute of Science', u'Department of Biological Chemistry, The Weizmann Institute of Science']]
[u'Error location in Python: where the mutants hide', ['Joshua C Campbell', 'Abram Hindle', 'Jose N Amaral'], u'2015-05-28', u'Dynamic scripting programming languages present a unique challenge to software engineering tools that depend on static analysis. Dynamic languages do not benefit from the full lexical and syntax analysis provided by compilers and static analysis tools. Prior work exploited a statically typed language (Java) and a simple \\(n\\)-gram language model to find syntax-error locations in programs. This work investigates whether \\(n\\)-gram-based error location on source code written in a dynamic language is effective without static analysis or compilation. UnnaturalCode.py is a syntax-error locator developed for the Python programming language. The UnnaturalCode.py approach is effective on Python code, but faces significantly more challenges than its Java counterpart did. UnnaturalCode.py generalizes the success of previous statically-typed approaches to a dynamically-typed language.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1132/', ['Natural Language and Speech', 'Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Continuous mapping of the main habitats of the Corsican littoral', ['Audrey Valette-Sansevin', 'Samy Alami', 'Marina Bonacorsi', 'Elodie Damier', 'Gerard Pergent', 'Christine Pergent-Martini'], u'2015-05-27', u'The availability of maps of the main habitats and types of bottom constitutes a priority for managers of the marine environment. For several years, a number of studies have been undertaken in order to meet this requirement, but they generally only cover limited areas and the methods used, as well as their accuracy, vary widely from one site to another. An original approach has been initiated for this purpose along the coast of Corsica (1 000 km of coastline); it has involved (i) surveying all the available data (293 identified maps), (ii) selecting and extracting the most relevant data (date and method of acquisition, accuracy), (iii) updating the data on surface habitats (e.g. upper limits of the Posidonia oceanica meadows) by means of remote sensing of recent images, (iv) homogenizing all the available data (typology of benthic biocenoses in the Mediterranean), (v) assembling the full set of data within an easily incrementable Geographical Information System (GIS), and (v) proposing a scale of reliability making it possible to associate a degree of confidence to each point on the map. This approach has resulted in the production of a map covering the whole of the Corsican coastline down to 50 to 150 m depth (depending on the sector considered), including, where there is an overlap, only the data with the highest degree of reliability. The surface area mapped is estimated at more than 299 700 ha, which makes it one of the largest recent maps ever produced for the Mediterranean. The P. oceanica meadow covers a surface area of about 57 500 ha, or 45.3% of the seabed between 0 and 50 m depth. In relation to the earlier data collected in the 1990s (potential surface area of seagrass beds), the extension of P. oceanica has remained relatively stable, and the differences observed may be explained mainly by the accuracy of this new map which possesses a greater degree of reliability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1131/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'EqEL FRES 3041, University of Corsica', u'Antenne de M\xe9diterrran\xe9e, Agence des aires marines prot\xe9g\xe9es']]
[u'A taste for exotic food: Neotropical land planarians feeding on an invasive flatworm', ['Piter K Boll', 'Ilana Rossi', 'Silvana V Amaral', 'Ana Leal-Zanchet'], u'2015-05-27', u'Invasive species establish successfully in new habitats especially due to their generalist diet and release of natural enemies. However, native species may also adapt to use new elements in their ecosystem. The planarian Endeavouria septemlineata, first recorded in Hawaii, was later registered in Australia and Brazil. Recently we found it in human-disturbed areas in southern Brazil and here we investigate its interactions with other invertebrates both in the field and in the laboratory. We observed the species in the field during collecting activities and maintained some specimens alive in small terraria in the laboratory, where we offered different invertebrate species as potential prey and also put them in contact with native land planarians in order to examine their interaction. Both in the field and in the laboratory, E. septemlineata showed a gregarious behavior and was found feeding on woodlice, millipedes, earwigs and gastropods. In the laboratory, specimens did not attack live prey, but immediately approached dead specimens, indicating a scavenging behavior. Four native land planarians of the genus Obama and two of the genus Paraba attacked and consumed E. septemlineata, which, after the beginning of the attack, tried to escape by tumbling or using autotomy. As a scavenger, E. septemlineata would impact the populations of species used as food, but could possibly exclude native scavengers by competition. On the other hand, its consumption by native land planarians may control its spread and thus reduce its impact on the ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1130/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, Universidade do Vale do Rio dos Sinos - UNISINOS']]
[u'Assessment of carbon sequestrated within the matte of the Posidonia oceanica meadow at the NATURA 2000 site \u201cGrand Herbier de la Plaine Orientale\u201d', ['Gerard Pergent', 'Christine Pergent-Martini', 'Marine De Florinier', 'Marina Bonacorsi', 'Philippe Clabaut', 'Audrey Valette-Sansevin'], u'2015-05-27', u'The coastal vegetation, and in particular the seagrasses, plays a major role in the fixation of carbon. Posidonia oceanica, a species endemic to the Mediterranean, is of particular interest because of the constitution of a particular structure, the matte, which enables the sequestration of carbon over long periods of time. An initial assessment of the stocks of carbon sequestrated within the matte has been undertaken in two sectors of the NATURA 2000 site \u201cGrand Herbier de la Plaine Orientale\u201d, Biguglia in the north and Al\xe9ria in the south. The surface area of the meadow has been measured by means of the combined use of aerial remote sensing (shallow zone) and side-scan sonar (deep zone). The thickness of the matte has been assessed by means of seismic reflection using a 2.5 KHz sediment probe and a sparker. The calibration of the seismic data was performed by scuba diving at the level of intermatte cliffs, clearly visible on the seismic profiles. The seagrass meadow at the NATURA 2000 site extends from 3 to 41 m depth and covers an estimated total area of 22 667 ha, or 52.4% of the bottom between 0 and 50 m depth. The speed of propagation within the matte (celerity), estimated by comparison of the field data (intermatte) and the seismic profiles, ranges from 1 600 to 1 700 m.s-1. The thickness of the matte, estimated on the basis of the mean celerity, is on average 2.7 m for the Biguglia zone where it may locally exceed 8 m; it is on average 3.2 m for the Al\xe9ria zone where it may exceed 13 m, in particular off the mouth of the coastal river Tavignano. The presence of matte beneath the sediment should also be noted in patches of sand within the meadow and also beyond the lower limit. The quantity of carbon sequestered at this NATURA 2000 site may exceed 60 million tons. However, it would be necessary to carry out coring within the matte, in several representative sectors, in order to assess more accurately the amounts of carbon sequestered at this site.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1129/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'EqEL - FRES 3041, University of Corsica', u'Clabaut Consultant']]
[u'Origin of the unique ventilatory apparatus of turtles', ['Tyler Lyson', 'Emma R Schachner', 'Jennifer Botha-Brink', 'Torsten Scheyer', 'Markus Lambertz', 'Gaberiel Bever', 'Bruce Rubidge', 'Kevin de Queiroz'], u'2015-05-27', u'Background. The turtle body plan differs markedly from that of other vertebrates and serves as a model system for studying structural and developmental evolution. Incorporation of the ribs into the iconic turtle shell negates the rib movements that effect lung ventilation in the majority of air-breathing amniotes (the clade encompassing mammals, lizards, turtles, birds, and crocodilians). Instead, turtles have a novel abdominal-muscle-based ventilatory apparatus whose evolutionary origin remains a mystery. Methods. Here we show through broadly comparative anatomical and histological analyses that the earliest stem-group turtle form the middle Permian (260 mya), Eunotosaurus africanus, has several turtle-specific lung ventilation characters: rigid ribcage, inferred loss of intercostal muscles which drive costal ventilation in all other amniotes, and histological correlates for the primary muscle, M. transverses, used in exhalation. Results. Our results place the origin of the unique lung ventilatory apparatus of extant turtles shortly after the divergence of turtles from other reptiles and approximately 50 million years before the oldest known fully developed shell. Discussion. These data indicate that it was an easing of structural constraints through division of function (divergent specialization) between the ribs and abdominal musculature that facilitated the evolution of both the novel turtle lung ventilation mechanism and the turtle shell.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1128/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, Denver Museum of Nature and Science', u'Department of Veterinary Clinical Sciences, Louisiana State University', u'Karoo Paleontology, National Museum', u'University of Zurich', u'Institut f\xfcr Zoologie, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universit\xe4t Bonn', u'College of Osteopathic Medicine, New York Institute of Technology', u'Evolutionary Studies Institute, University of Witwatersrand', u'Department of Vertebrate Zoology, Smithsonian Institution']]
[u'Exploring the attitudes of medical faculty members and students in Pakistan towards plagiarism: a cross sectional survey', ['Farooq A Rathore', 'Ahmed Waqas', 'Ahmad Marjan Zia', 'Martina Mavrinac', 'Fareeha Farooq'], u'2015-05-26', u'Objective:The objective of this survey was to explore the attitudes towards plagiarism of faculty members and medical students in Pakistan.\nMethods:The attitudes toward plagiarism questionnaire (ATPQ) was modified and distributed among 550 medical students and 130 faculty members in 7 medical colleges of Lahore and Rawalpindi. Data was entered in the SPSS v.20 and descriptive statistics were analyzed. The questionnaire was validated by principal axis factoring analysis.\nResults:Response rate was 93% and 73% respectively. Principal axis factoring analysis confirmed one factor structure of ATPQ in the present sample. It had an acceptable Cronbach\u2019s alpha value of 0.73. There were 421 medical students (218 (52%) female, 46% 3rd year MBBS students, mean age of 20.93 \xb1 1.4 years) and 95 faculty members (54.7% female, mean age 34.5 \xb1 8.9 years). One fifth of the students (19.7%) trained in medical writing (19.7%), research ethics (25.2%) or were currently involved in medical writing (17.6%). Most of the faculty members were demonstrators (66) or assistant professors (20) with work experience between 1-10 years. Most of them had trained in medical writing (68), research ethics (64) and were currently involved in medical writing (64). Medical students and faculty members had a mean score of 43.21 (7.1) and 48.4 (5.9) respectively on ATPQ. Most of the respondents did not consider that they worked in a plagiarism free environment and reported that self-plagiarism should not be punishable in the same way as plagiarism. Opinion regarding leniency in punishment of younger researchers who were just learning medical writing was divided.\nConclusions:The general attitudes of Pakistani medical faculty members and medical students as assessed by ATPQ were positive. We propose training in medical writing and research ethics as part of the under and post graduate medical curriculum.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1127/', ['Ethical Issues', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry', u'CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry', u'Department for Medical Informatics, University of Rijeka, School of Medicine', u'Department of Biochemistry, FMH College of Medicine and Dentistry']]
[u'Bayesian phylogeny analysis of vertebrate serpins illustrates evolutionary conservation of the intron and indels based six groups classification system from lampreys for ~500 MY', ['Abhishek Kumar'], u'2015-05-26', u'The serpin superfamily is characterized by proteins that fold into a conserved tertiary structure and exploits a sophisticated and irreversible suicide-mechanism of inhibition. Vertebrate serpins can be conveniently classified into six groups (V1-V6), based on three independent biological features - genomic organization, diagnostic amino acid sites and rare indels. However, this classification system was based on the limited number of mammalian genomes available. In this study, several non-mammalian genomes are used to validate this classification system, using the powerful Bayesian phylogenetic method. This method supports the intron and indel based vertebrate classification and proves that serpins have been maintained from lampreys to humans for about 500 MY. Lampreys have less than 10 serpins, which expanded into 36 serpins in humans. The two expanding groups V1 and V2 have SERPINB1/SERPINB6 and SERPINA8/SERPIND1 as the ancestral serpins, respectively. Large clusters of serpins are formed by local duplications of these serpins in tetrapod genomes. Interestingly, the ancestral HCII/SERPIND1 locus (nested within PIK4CA) possesses group V4 serpin (A2APL1, homolog of \u03b12-AP/SERPINF2 ) of lampreys; hence, pointing to the fact that group V4 might have originated from group V2. Additionally in this study, the phylogenetic history and genomic characteristics of vertebrate serpins were revisited.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1126/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Division of Molecular Genetic Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Center (Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum, DKFZ)', u'Department of Genetics & Molecular Biology in Botany, Institute of Botany, Christian-Albrechts-University at Kiel']]
[u'EndoPRIME - Prehabilitation and exercise before arthroplasty', ['Lothar Seefried', 'Nicole Luksche', 'Michael Schneider', 'Franca Genest'], u'2015-05-26', u'Over the last two decades the number of total joint replacement surgeries increased consistently. With the patient population growing older and therefore suffering from more comorbidities and total joint replacement being progressively indicated even in patients with compromised medical status, the need for preoperative optimization of medical conditions appears a promising approach to reduce perioperative risk for complication, and readmission rates, avoid prolonged functional deficiency and improve functional, objective as well as patient reported, subjective outcome following surgery. Literature addressing the question of preoperative status afflicting postoperative outcome after total joint replacement is still imprecise and inconsistent. There seems to be some data, that a worse preoperative functional status predicts worse outcome in terms of both function and pain after total joint replacement. It is still not clear, what preoperatively evaluable parameters can be modified by which kind of intervention and which measures are suitable to monitor improvement of the outcome following such interventions. Based on the hypothesis that patient reported outcome, the frequency of untoward events and functional outcome following total joint replacement can be improved by establishing an individualized concept aiming at improving medical conditions and physical performance preoperatively, the EndoPRIME Trial (ENDOprosthetic joint replacement \u2013 improving treatment by integrating Prehabilitation, Rehabilitation, Individualized Management and Education) was initiated. The trial was approved by the competent ethics committee at Wuerzburg University. The project aims at expanding current knowledge about the feasibility and potential of preoperative improvement and quantivfy respective effects on postoperative outcome after total joint replacement, The proposed study is an interventional, prospective, single-center pilot study with exploratory data analysis to evaluate the feasibility and potential of improving peri- and postoperative outcome in total joint replacement of the hip, knee and shoulder by a standardized, individually optimized treatment pathway including pre- and postoperative exercising, risk management and patient education based on a comprehensive preoperative functional assessment and expanded clinical evaluation. Study duration for each individual patient comprises 12 weeks prior to surgery and one year after surgery, i.e. individual participation will last weeks. The primary endpoint of the trial is intraindividual development of osteoarthritis-associated health-limitations as measured by the WOMAC-Score. Further objectives include Patient Reported Outcome measures, type and frequency of perioperative untoward events, and a wide range of clinical and technical assessments of physical performance. Results can be expected by the third quarter 2017.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1119/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Geriatrics', 'Orthopedics', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Clinical Trial Unit Orthopedic Department, University of Wuerzburg']]
[u'Sedimentary facies and foraminiferal assemblages from Posidonia oceanica meadows of western Mediterranean Sea', ['Giovanni Gaglianone', 'Virgilio Frezza', 'Marco Brandano'], u'2015-05-26', u'Sedimentary facies and foraminiferal assemblages of sediments sampled into seven Posidonia oceanica meadows from Western Mediterranean Sea were investigated. Six sampling sites are localised in Italy (Maratea, Ponza Island, Santa Marinella, Giglio Island, Osalla and Alghero), and one in France (Argentella, Crovani Bay, Corsica). The role of P. oceanica meadows in the sedimentary processes was investigated in different contexts: sampled meadows are set up both on soft and hard substrates, often forming \u201cmattes\u201d, in geographical areas subject to different wind and sea conditions (waves and longshore currents) and characterised by various coastal landforms and terrigenous inputs derived from costal erosional processes and/or fluvial contributions. A sedimentological, compositional, micropaleontological and geochemical characterisation of 111 bottom sediment samples, collected by SCUBA diving between 0 and 35 mwd, was carried out and finally tested with a Q-mode cluster analysis. Five sedimentary facies have been recognised, from terrigenous to mixed siliciclastic-carbonate and carbonate. Facies (and subfacies) are distinguishable by sorting, gravel content, abundance and maturity of clastic sediments, and weighted average of carbonate content. In all facies, foraminifers and red algae dominate the bioclastic fraction, whereas other bioclastic components are very subordinate and show a variable distribution. In all the investigated sites, benthic foraminiferal assemblages are generally dominated by typical epiphytic species, such as Asterigerinata mamilla, Lobatula lobatula, Peneroplis pertusus, Planorbulina mediterranensis, Rosalina spp. and miliolids. Nevertheless, these assemblages show some differences in the different sites according to the presence or absence of terrigenous contributions and, consequently, to the water turbidity. This parameter influences symbiont-bearing foraminifer as P. pertusus. Moreover, the samples from Argentella (Crovany Bay) are characterised by a peculiar assemblage, in which Miniacina miniacea dominates with very high frequencies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1125/', ['Environmental Sciences'], [u'Dipartimento di Scienze della Terra, Universit\xe0 di Roma \u201cSapienza\u201d', u'IGAG-CNR Area della Ricerca di Roma 1, Monterotondo Stazione, IGAG-CNR']]
[u'The Life \u201cSeResto\u201d project: A new strategic approach to meet HD and WFD objectives by SEagrass RESTOration', ['Alessandro Buosi', 'Chiara Facca', 'Emanuele Ponis', 'Andrea Bonometto', 'Rossella Boscolo', 'Massimo Parravicini', 'Elena Centanni', 'Andrea Siega', 'Valerio Volpe', 'Adriano Sfriso'], u'2015-05-26', u'Pristine conditions in transitional water ecosystems are characterized by the dominance of aquatic angiosperms. Aquatic plants consolidate bottoms, prevent erosion, support benthic and fish communities as nursery and food areas, and favour the bird presence. Hence, they may contribute to the achievement of a good ecological status as required by the WFD (2000/60/EC). Their reduction or disappearance is a symptom of environmental deterioration. Over the past few decades, the aquatic angiosperms have shown a significant decrease on a worldwide scale and in some areas of Venice Lagoon (Adriatic Sea), particularly in the central and Northern basins, as a consequence of anthropogenic activities.\nAt present, most of the anthropogenic pressures which caused their decline or disappearance in Venice Lagoon have significantly decreased creating the ecological conditions for a new colonization. In this context, the project SeResto (LIFE12 NAT/IT/000331), funded by the European Commission, aims at restoring the angiosperm meadows in the Northern basin of Venice Lagoon where the natural seed spreading is hampered by the presence of island, tidal marsh barriers and long residence times.\nThe project has two main strengths: i) the widespread transplantations of small angiosperm sods and manual dispersion of rhizomes and seeds and based on a low costs and low impact on donor sites approach, ii) the participation of fishermen and hunters daily living the lagoon for recreational purposes. Thirty-five sites have been selected and in each one 9 sod-bearing plants (diameter: 30 cm), supplied by fish farms where angiosperm meadows are almost natural, have been transplanted. In addition, the plant spreading is enhanced by the dissemination of hundreds of rhizomes, 1500 at minimum in each area during the project period (52 months).\nIn 8 sites, out of the 35, biological and chemico-physical conditions are being monitored monthly during the first and last year and quarterly in the intermediate period. Ecological indices, based on the study of macrophytes, macrobenthic fauna and fish fauna (Biological Quality Elements), as required by the WFD 2000/60/EC, will allow to assess changes in the Ecological Status of the study sites. Preliminary results are encouraging in great part of the selected areas although some difficulties have been recorded in areas with high water turbidity and the presence of thionitrophilous macroalgae, especially Ulvaceae, favoured by the unexpected weather conditions of summer 2014. Information on the restoration effectiveness and the relationship between the angiosperm presence/growth and the environmental conditions can be employed for interventions in other lagoon areas and can be exported in other similar transitional environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1124/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Environmental Sciences, Informatics & Statistics (DAIS), University "C\xe0 Foscari"', u'Italian National Institute  for Environmental Protection and Research, ISPRA', u'Laguna Venexiana, Onlus', u'Provveditorato Interregionale per le Opere Pubbliche, del Veneto-Trentino Alto Adige-Friuli Venezia Giulia']]
[u'The impact of threat of shock on the framing effect and temporal discounting: executive functions unperturbed by acute stress?', ['Oliver J Robinson', 'Rebecca L Bond', 'Jonathan P Roiser'], u'2015-05-26', u'Anxiety and stress-related disorders constitute a large global health burden, but are still poorly understood. Prior work has demonstrated clear impacts of stress upon basic cognitive function: biasing attention towards unexpected and potentially threatening information and instantiating a negative affective bias. However, the impact that these changes have on higher-order, executive, decision-making processes is unclear. In this study we examined the impact of a translational within-subjects stress induction (threat of unpredictable shock) on two well-established executive decision-making biases: the framing effect (N=83), and temporal discounting (N=36). In both studies, we demonstrate a) clear subjective effects of stress, and b) clear executive decision-making biases but c) no impact of stress on these decision-making biases. Indeed, Bayes factor analyses confirmed substantial preference for decision-making models that did not include stress. We posit that while stress may induce subjective mood change and alter low-level perceptual and action processes (Robinson et al., 2013b) , some higher-level executive processes remain unperturbed by these impacts. As such, although stress can induce a transient affective biases and altered mood, these need not result in poor financial decision-making.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1123/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London']]
[u'Impact of polybasic alcohols on biocompatibility and selectivity of Penicillin G Acylase for kinetically controlled synthesis', ['Yi-Feng Shi', 'Zhu-An Cao', 'Zhong-Yao Shen'], u'2015-05-26', u'The enzyme catalyzed synthesis of cephalexin (CEX) from 7-amino-3-deacetoxycephalosporanic acid (7-ADCA) and D-a-phenylglycine methyl ester (PGM) by Penicillin G acylase (PGA) is a model for kinetically controlled synthesis. The parallel hydrolysis of PGM, the activated acyl donor, is the principle competing pathway in this reaction, limiting the synthetic yield and reaction efficiency. To improve the performance of PGA catalyzed CEX synthesis, the biocompatibility and selectivity of various co-solvents were investigated. Polybasic alcohols such as ethylene glycol, glycerol and PEG400 did not cause deleterious changes to the enzyme, whereas monobasic alcohols, such as butyl alcohol, disrupted the PGA activity. Compared with the reaction in aqueous medium, the use of ethylene glycol as a co-solvent was found to have good selectivity in order to facilitate CEX synthesis and significantly minimize PGM hydrolysis. The pH of ethylene glycol medium was also optimized. The mechanism of the enhanced effect of polybasic alcohols as co-solvents on both biocompatibility and selectivity of enzymatic kinetically controlled synthesis is suggested.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1122/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology, School of Bioengineering, Dalian Polytechnic University', u'Department of Chemical Engineering, Tsinghua University']]
[u'Combining complexity measures of EEG data: multiplying measures reveal previously hidden information', ['Thomas F Burns'], u'2015-05-26', u"Many studies have noted significant differences among human EEG results when participants or patients are exposed to different stimuli, undertaking different tasks, or being affected by conditions such as epilepsy or Alzheimer's disease. Such studies often use only one or two measures of complexity and do not regularly justify their choice of measure beyond the fact that it has been used in previous studies. If more measures were added to such studies, however, more complete information might be found about these reported differences. Such information might be useful in confirming the existence or extent of such differences, or in understanding their physiological bases. In this study I analysed publically-available EEG data using a range of complexity measures to determine how well the measures correlated with one another. The complexity measures did not all significantly correlate, suggesting that different measures were measuring unique features of the EEG signals and thus revealing information which other measures were unable to detect. Therefore, the results from this analysis suggests that combinations of complexity measures reveal unique information which is in addition to the information captured by other measures of complexity in EEG data. For this reason, researchers using individual complexity measures for EEG data should consider using combinations of measures to more completely account for any differences they observe and to ensure the robustness of any relationships identified.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1121/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Monash University']]
[u'How do medical students utilize mobile handheld devices in learning?', ['Ayad M Al-Moslih', 'Erik Driessen'], u'2015-05-25', u'Introduction. The phenomenon of increased and ubiquitous use of mobile handheld devices by medical students triggered the interest to explore how these students utilize their devices while learning. Methods. This study was conducted at the Medical College of University of Sharjah in the United Arab Emirates during the period February to April 2012. A total of 463 students participated in the study. A mixed methodology was employed where an initial survey provided the necessary preliminary data and purposively sample the subjects, followed by two focus group discussions to explore this phenomenon in depth. Results. The survey results demonstrated that vast majority (95.9%) of students possess at least one type of mobile handheld device. Most of these students (90.1%) used their handheld device while learning. Students used these devices in different contexts, varying between Lectures, Problem-Based Learning (PBL) sessions, Hospitals and other contexts were identified (32.4%, 30.1%, 20% and 13% respectively). Majority of students (83.2%) use their handhelds when learning individually on their own time, whereas about half of them (48.3%) use it in learning with friends i.e. collaboratively. Focus group discussions revealed several aspects of how students utilized their mobile handheld devices while learning. Five themes were identified, which demonstrated the resources and accessed content, contexts of use, activities that involved learning, with whom students learned, and what made them learn or not learn while using these devices. Conclusion. Mobile handheld devices facilitated students learning \u201con-the-move\u201d on and off-campus in different ways. Students utilized their devices mostly to complement and augment their learning in different contexts. Students believed that a huge gap exists between themselves and their teachers in terms of mobile learning.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1118/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Family Medicine, College of Medicine, University of Sharjah', u'Faculty of Health, Medicine and Life Sciences, Educational Development and Research, Maastricht University']]
[u'Could biorational insecticides be used in the management of aflatoxigenic Aspergillus spp. and their insect vectors in stored wheat?', ['Tiyyabah Khan', 'Ahmad Ali Shahid', 'Hafiz Azhar Ali Khan'], u'2015-05-24', u'Insect pests in stored wheat cause significant losses and play an important role in the dispersal of viable fungal spores of various species including aflatoxin producing Aspergillus spp. The problems of insecticide resistance in stored insects and environmental hazards associated with fumigants and conventional grain protectants underscore the need to explore reduced risk insecticides to control stored insects and the ultimate effect on fungal infection inhibition. The purpose of this study was to investigate the insecticidal potential of four biorational insecticides: spinosad, thiamethoxam, imidacloprid and indoxacarb on wheat against Rhyzopertha dominica and Sitophilus oryzae and the subsequent effect of insects\u2019 mortality on Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus infection in grains. Spinosad and thiamethoxam were the most effective insecticides against R. dominica compared to S. oryzae followed by imidacloprid. Spinosad applied at 0.25, 0.5 and 1ppm and thiamethoxam at 2 and 4ppm concentrations resulted in complete mortality of R. dominica and >90% infection inhibition of A. flavus and A. parasiticus. However, indoxacarb was more toxic against S. oryzae compared to R. dominica. The mortality of R. dominica was directly related to the percent infection inhibition of A. flavus and A. parasiticus in all the treatments. Whereas, mortality of S. oryzae was only related to the percent infection inhibition of A. parasiticus in all the treatments. The results show that although both spinosad and thiamethoxam can provide protection against R. dominica and fungal infections in stored grains, more potent reduced risk insecticides and/or their combinations would be needed than either of these to provide broad spectrum protection of stored grains. In conclusion, the results of the present study provide baseline data for the management of aflatoxigenic fungi by controlling stored insects using biorational insecticides .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1117/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Entomology', 'Toxicology'], [u'Faculty of Life Sciences, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, University of the Punjab']]
[u'Customization of psychosocial stress effects on human health: An intrapersonal conflict perspective', ['Patrick Sandoz'], u'2015-05-23', u'From etiologic, clinical or public health perspectives, differences in psychosocial stress responses remain a huge scientific and medical challenge. We address the customization of psychosocial stress responses in humans by considering our dual character of independent organisms and interdependent social group members as a source of intrapersonal conflicts.\nBy challenging our subjective representations on our social identity, psychosocial stress triggers or exhibits intrapersonal conflicts and may enhance divergence between physiologically-driven and psycho-sociologically-driven internal forces. In this perspective, our individual-specific brain development constitutes a major cause of interindividual variability since it impacts the overall stress-to-disease links.\nWe propose a two-step stress-to-disease etiological chain: i) stress perception and appraisal and ii) response to actually perceived stress. We argue that the first step of stress perception and appraisal is more affected by interindividual variability than the second step of response to actually perceived stress. A psychocognitive approach correlating symptoms with actually perceived stress is proposed to address the epidemiology of psychosocial stress effects. The ability of this approach to reduce interindividual variability biases is discussed.\nFrom this perspective, pathological effects of psychosocial stress might be questioned as possible conflict responses internally emerging as the lesser evil, thus corresponding to adaptation attempts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1116/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Epidemiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Institut FEMTO-ST, Universit\xe9 de Franche-Comt\xe9, UMR CNRS 6174']]
[u'Rapid identification of Human Serum Albumin binding peptides from a phage display library\uff1aa back-of-the-envelope assessment of positive binders using titer-based criteria', ['Yi-Feng Shi', 'Min Li', 'Jia-Di Zhang', 'Lei Bian'], u'2015-05-23', u'Human serum albumin (HSA) is the most abundant protein in blood and has a 19-day in vivo half-life, the longest human blood protein. HSA has also been extensively studied as a drug carrier in a wide variety of clinical applications. HSA-binding, compared with HSA-fusion, is promising strategy for extending the plasma half-life of protein therapeutics. The construction of albumin-binding drugs requires assessment of a large enough quantity of HSA-binding peptide candidates for conjugation with therapeutic proteins. Here, we report a back-of-the-envelope assessment method to facilitate phage display selection of HSA-binding peptides. With an experimentally determined number of phage titers, we can calculate the specificity ratios and the recovery yields. The recovery yield is calculated using the titers of eluted phage divided by the titers of input phage. The specificity ratio is calculated using the titer of eluted phage from a target-coated plate divided by the titer of eluted phage from a blank-control plate. These parameters are defined as quantitative criteria for panning and characterization of binding phage clones. Consequently, this approach may enable more rapid and low-cost phage display screening of HSA-binding peptides, which could be used as candidates of HSA binders for conjugation with therapeutic proteins.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1115/', ['Biotechnology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology, School of Bioengineering, Dalian Polytechnic University']]
[u'A systemic explanation of denial of pregnancy fitting clinical observations and previous models', ['Patrick Sandoz'], u'2015-05-22', u'Introduction: The etiology of denial of pregnancy remains poorly understood. Neither necessary nor sufficient conditions can be synthesized from the risk factors identified from psychological analyses. Furthermore, the involvement of mother-fetus interactions cannot result only from psychology causes in the mother. Although instructive, the few available evolutionary and systemic explanations proposed remain insufficient. This article synthesizes and extends previous knowledge within a systemic model which is fully compatible with clinical observations.\nMethods: A systemic intrapersonal conflict theory opposing primitive, evolutionary-inherited forces to psycho-sociological forces embodied across individual\u2019s childhood is developed.\nResults: As members of a social species, human beings have a dual character of independent organisms and of social group members that is a source of customized intrapersonal conflicts. Authors explain denial of pregnancy as a standby-in-tension response to such an unresolved intrapersonal conflict between forand against-pregnancy forces. As long as the woman\u2019s brain is unable to renounce one option in favor of the other, denial of pregnancy offers a standby-in-tension means to postpone conflict resolution. It may thus be considered as temporarily adaptive response.\nConclusions: The proposed systemic psycho-evolutionary explanation of denial of pregnancy is fully consistent with clinical observations. It brings into agreement the previously reported models with the advantage of being more synthetic. It is thus compatible with a large diversity of causative events in accordance with the actual life story of each woman concerned.\nThe systemic intrapersonal conflict approach developed herein provides a new means of investigating body-mind problems, especially pseudocyesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1114/', ['Epidemiology', 'Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', "Women's Health"], [u'Institut FEMTO-ST, Universit\xe9 de Franche-Comt\xe9, UMR CNRS 6174']]
[u'Regional Internet-competition in English skills among Russian-speaking medical students: first experience', ['Ksenia A. Mitrofanova', 'Oksana A. Gavrilyuk', 'Sergey A. Chemezov'], u'2015-05-22', u'Currently being a highly qualified medical specialist means to be a member of an international medical society. One of the major resources to enter the international medical field is excellent English skills, as the English language has become a lingua franca in Medicine. Thus, our aim is to enhance students\u2019 motivation to study English for professional purposes starting from the first year in the medical school. We organized the Internet competition in English skills among first-year students from two Russian medical schools (USMU in the Urals and KrasSMU in Siberia). The competition had three stages held during 30 days in November-December, 2014 via the Internet on the e-educational platforms of the universities. All tasks were related to medical profession. Overall 130 students took part in the competition doing the reading, listening and writing tasks at the first stage. The best 35 students continued their work at the second stage where they created a video on the topic \u201cHealth is not simply the absence of sickness\u201d. Then 10 students were selected to participate in the final, which was held as a teleconference between the universities. The evaluation of students\u2019 works was performed by competent English teachers. The results of the competition showed that medical students enthusiastically accepted new teaching methods developing their creativity. The first-year medical students expressed a desire for their involvement in unusual educational projects and were interested in studying English for professional purposes. Thus, we may include outstanding educational techniques in the studying process to keep medical students motivated and develop their individual skills and abilities. Moreover, such competitions promote better communication between the universities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1112/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Ural State Medical University', u'Department of Latin and Foreign Languages, Krasnoyarsk State Medical University']]
[u'Assessment of catfish farming in Osogbo (Nigeria) and its environs', ['Kehinde Moruff Adelakun', 'Rosemary Patrick Amali', 'Damilare Ibukun Ogundiwin', 'Kayo Bakare'], u'2015-05-21', u'As Fish farming (Aquaculture) is the most efficient husbandry method for animal protein production, an assessment of catfish farming in Osogbo and Osun state was undertaken. An assessment was carried out among 53 catfish farmers between January and April, 2013 using questionnaires conducted via face-to-face interviews. The results revealed that there are large numbers of fish farms in and around the Osogbo area. Twenty (37.74%) of the fish farms are commercial farms while thirty-three (62.36%) are homestead. Results also showed that there were more males are than females working in these fish farms. The two prominent religious faiths, Islam and Christianity are both represented by the employees, indicating that it there are no religious restrictions. The semi-intensive system of fish farming with concrete and earthen ponds was being adopted by the farmers and there has been steady development over the last five years. Insufficient funds for expansion, unpredictable weather, fishseed mortality, irregular price of feed ingredients and pricing of products, among other factors, are the major challenges faced. Useful suggestions and recommendations are offered to address these challenges and sustain business growth.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1108/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science'], [u'Department of Wildlife and Ecotourism Management, Federal College of Wildlife Management', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Lokoja', u'Department of International Fisheries Management, University of Troms\xf8', u'Department of Vocational Studies, Federal College of Wildlife Management']]
[u'Essential amino acid provisioning by termite-associated gut microbiota', ['Paul A Ayayee', 'Susan C Jones', 'Zakee L Sabree'], u'2015-05-21', u'Gut-associated microbes of many insects provide a variety of beneficial nutritive functions to their hosts such as the provisioning of essential amino acids (EAAs) to those that feed on diets limited in assimilable nitrogen (i.e., wood). We investigated this function by the gut microbiota of the eastern subterranean termite (Reticulitermes flavipes) using 13C-stable isotope analysis of EAAs in the diet and termite samples. Evidence of possible microbe input was revealed by 13C-depletion of termite carcass (-27.0 \xb1 0.43\u2030, mean \xb1 s.e.), and termite gut filtrate samples (-27.3 \xb1 0.58\u2030) relative to their wood diet (-26.0 \xb1 0.48\u2030) (F (2, 63) = 6.2, P < 0.004). An investigation of the identity of non-dietary EAA sources determined that termites predominantly incorporated EAAs derived from bacteria, with minor fungal input. The most likely means of EAA acquisition is through proctodeal trophallaxis (mouth-anus feeding), a well-established feature of termite colony nestmates, and subsequent digestion of the microbial fraction in the transferred food. Our study provides empirical data in support of the gut microbial EAA provisioning function in termites by using 13C-stable isotopes to determine the microbial origins of incorporated EAAs in termite tissues.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1109/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Evolution, Ecology and Organismal Biology, Ohio State University', u'Department of Entomology, Ohio State University']]
[u'Social media as a big public health data source: review of the international bibliography', ['Evika Karamagioli'], u'2015-05-21', u'Background: As the use of social media creates huge amounts of data, the need for big data analysis has to synthesize the information and determine which actions is generated. Online communication channels such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram etc provide a wealth of passively collected data that may be mined for public health purposes such as health surveillance, health crisis management, and last but not least health promotion and education. Objective: We explore international bibliography on the potential role and perceptive of use for social media as a big data source for public health purposes. Method: Systematic literature review. Data extraction and synthesis was performed with the use of thematic analysis. Results: Examples of those currently collecting and analyzing big data from generated social content include scientists who are working with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to track the spread of flu by analyzing what user searches, and the World Health Organization is working on disaster management relief. But what exactly do we do with this big social media data? We can track real-time trends and understand them quicker through the platforms and processing services. By processing this big social media data, it is possible to determine specific patterns in conversation topics, users behaviors, overall trends and influencers, sociodemographic characteristics, lifestyle behaviors, and social and cultural constructs. Conclusion: The key to fostering big data and social media converge is process and analyze the right data that may be mined for purposes of public health, so as to provide strategic insights for planning, execution and measurement of effective and efficient public health interventions. In this effort, political, economic and legal obstacles need to be seriously considered.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1107/', ['Global Health', 'Public Health', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Ethniko Kapodistriako Panepistio Athinon']]
[u'Ghost-tree: creating hybrid-gene phylogenetic trees for diversity analyses', ['Jennifer Fouquier', 'Jai R Rideout', 'Evan Bolyen', 'John H Chase', 'Arron Shiffer', 'Daniel McDonald', 'Rob Knight', 'J Gregory Caporaso', 'Scott T. Kelley'], u'2015-05-21', u'Ghost-tree is a bioinformatics tool that integrates sequence data from two genetic markers into a single phylogenetic tree that can be used for diversity analyses. Our approach uses one genetic marker whose sequences can be aligned across organisms spanning divergent taxonomic groups (e.g., fungal families) as a \u201cfoundation\u201d phylogeny. A second, more rapidly evolving genetic marker is then used to build \u201cextension\u201d phylogenies for more closely related organisms (e.g., fungal species or strains) that are then grafted on to the foundation tree by mapping taxonomic names. We apply ghost-tree to graft fungal extension phylogenies derived from ITS sequences onto a foundation phylogeny derived from fungal 18S sequences. The result is a phylogenetic tree, compatible with the commonly used UNITE fungal database, that supports phylogenetic diversity analysis (e.g., UniFrac) of fungal communities profiled using ITS markers. Availability: ghost-tree is pip-installable. All source code, documentation, and test code are available under the BSD license at https://github.com/JTFouquier/ghost-tree.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1106/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Graduate Program in Bioinformatics and Medical Informatics, San Diego State University', u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Computer Science and BioFrontiers Institute, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Department of Pediatrics, and Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of California, San Diego', u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University']]
[u"A genetic analysis reveals low prevalence of phytoplasma infection in Hyalesthes obsoletus Signoret, vector of 'bois noir', in SW-Germany", ['Gabriele Schiro', 'Johannes Fahrentrapp', 'Florian Hartig', 'Bernd Panassiti'], u'2015-05-21', u'Bois Noir is a grapevine disease responsible for severe economic losses in wine production. Bois Noir is caused by Candidatus Phytoplasma solani, cell wall-less bacteria belonging to the taxonomic group 16Sr-XII-A. In Germany, they are known to be vectored from plant to plant by the cixiid Hyalesthes obsoletus, but so far the prevalence of the disease in the vector population, as well as its spatio-temporal distribution is poorly understood. We therefore analyzed infections of H. obsoletus collected in different vineyards in Baden (South-Western Germany) with quantitative real-time PCR. From 125 analyzed individuals, only five were infected with Ca. Phytoplasma solani. All infected individuals were colonized by Ca. Phytoplasma solani type I which is associated with the host plant Urtica dioica (stinging nettle). More research is needed to understand the reasons of this surprisingly low prevalence of Bois Noir in the population of H. obsoletus in South-West Germany.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/732/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biometry and Environmental System Analysis, University of Freiburg', u'Research Group for Viticulture, Department of Life Sciences and Facility Management, Zurich University of Applied Sciences ZHAW', u'State Institute of Viticulture and Oenology']]
[u'Multitrophic functional diversity predicts ecosystem functioning in experimental assemblages of estuarine consumers', ['Jonathan S Lefcheck', 'J. Emmett Duffy'], u'2015-05-21', u'The use of functional traits to explain how biodiversity affects ecosystem functioning has attracted intense interest, yet few studies have a priori altered functional diversity, especially in multitrophic communities. Here, we manipulated multivariate functional diversity of estuarine grazers and predators within multiple levels of species richness to test how species richness and functional diversity predicted ecosystem functioning in a multitrophic food web. Community functional diversity was a better predictor than species richness for the majority of ecosystem properties, based on general linear mixed effects models. Combining inferences from 8 traits into a single multivariate index increased prediction accuracy of these models relative to any individual trait. Structural equation modeling revealed that functional diversity of both grazers and predators was important in driving final biomass within trophic levels, with stronger effects observed for predators. We also show that different species drove different ecosystem responses, with evidence for both sampling effects and complementarity. Our study extends experimental investigations of functional trait diversity to a multilevel food web, and demonstrates that functional diversity can be more accurate and effective than species richness in predicting community biomass in a food web context.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/540/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Institute of Marine Science, The College of William & Mary', u'Tennenbaum Marine Observatories Network, Smithsonian Institution']]
[u'PROV\u2010man: A PROV\u2010compliant toolkit for provenance management', ['Ammar Benabdelkader', 'Antoine A.H.C. van Kampen', 'Silvia D Olabarriaga'], u'2015-05-20', u'Discoveries in modern science can take years and involve the contribution of large amounts of data, many people and various tools. Although good scientific practice dictates that findings should be reproducible, in practice there are very few automated tools that actually support traceability of the scientific method employed, in particular when various experimental environments are involved at different research phases. Data provenance tracking approaches can play a major role in addressing many of these challenges. These approaches propose ways to capture, manage, and use of provenance information to support the traceability of the scientific methods in heterogeneous environments. PROV is a W3C standard that provides a comprensive model for data and semantics representation with common vocabularies and rich concepts to describe provenance. Nevertheless, it is difficult for domain scientists to easily understand and adopt all the richeness provided by PROV. In this paper we describe the design and implementation of the provenance manager PROV-man, a PROV-compliant framework that facilitates the tasks of scientists in integrating provenance capabilities into their data analysis tools. PROV-man provides functionalities to create and manipulate provenance data in a consistent manner and ensures its permanent storage. It also provides a set of interfaces to serialize and export provenance data into various data formats, serving interoperability. The open architecture of PROV-man, consisting of an API and a configurable database, allows for its easy deployment within existing and newly developed software tools. The paper presents examples illustrating the usage of PROV-man. The first example illustrates how to create and manipulate provenance data of an online newspaper article using PROV-man. The second example demonstrates and evaluates the PROV-man implementation in a more complex case for collection of provenance data about biomedical data analysis activities that are carried out using a distributed computing infrastructure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1102/', ['Data Science', 'Databases', 'Digital Libraries', 'Emerging Technologies'], [u'Sharp Systems', u'Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam']]
[u'Sensitivity and specificity of information criteria', ['John J. Dziak', 'Donna L. Coffman', 'Stephanie T. Lanza', 'Runze Li'], u'2015-05-21', u"Choosing a model with too few parameters can involve making unrealistically simple assumptions and lead to high bias, poor prediction, and missed opportunities for insight. Such models are not flexible enough to describe the sample or the population well. A model with too many parameters can fit the observed data very well, but be too closely tailored to it. Such models may generalize poorly. Penalized-likelihood information criteria, such as Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC), the Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC), the Consistent AIC, and the Adjusted BIC, are widely used for model selection. However, different criteria sometimes support different models, leading to uncertainty about which criterion is the most trustworthy. In some simple cases the comparison of two models using information criteria can be viewed as equivalent to a likelihood ratio test, with the different models representing different alpha levels (i.e., different emphases on sensitivity or specificity; Lin & Dayton 1997). This perspective may lead to insights about how to interpret the criteria in less simple situations. For example, AIC or BIC could be preferable, depending on sample size and on the relative importance one assigns to sensitivity versus specificity. Understanding the differences among the criteria may make it easier to compare their results and to use them to make informed decisions.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1103/', ['Statistics'], [u'The Methodology Center, The Pennsylvania State University', u'Department of Statistics, The Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Social, and social networking media: A biomedical science department experience in training health professionals at the University of Technology, Jamaica', ['Joseph C Grannum', 'Pamela McLaughlin', 'Danisha R Osbourne', 'Patricia Bullock', 'Caryn Sands'], u'2015-05-20', u'Background: In a region of Caribbean states with limited human and financial resources institutions of higher education must use the technology available to reach its students across the region and allow professionals in the Biomedical Sciences to teach, interact and follow students from first year to their professional registration. This paper shares the journey of our students\u2019 progression across island states using Social Networking and Social media academic delivery. Objective: Using Information Communication Technology to delivery and monitor students across. Collect the data of their academic success and monitor their the use of knowledge over the 4 years of training so see if there was a link between the success at board examinations and the use and participation of the technology. Method: Accounts were opened with groups of students from the different islands. The research team was made managers of the account. Lectures, tutorials and labs were discussed. After completion of the module clinical cases were discussed building on a student\u2019s foundation knowledge. Control group used Moodle and at the end of were allowed to progress without for the next cohort. Results: Students who remained active in a Social and Social Networking Group after completing their modules had a higher rate of success in their professional registration examinations. Conclusions: Social and Social Networking Media had a very positive and lasting effect in the learning process than the control group using Moodle who were allowed to progress after they completed each modules. The quality of performance in the registration/board examinations was also better.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1104/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Pathology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Biomedical Sciences Department, Joint Colleges of Medicine, Oral Health and Veterinary Sciences, University of Technology', u'Department of Health Sciences, College of the Bahamas, University of Technology']]
[u'CheckM: assessing the quality of microbial genomes recovered from isolates, single cells, and metagenomes', ['Donovan H Parks', 'Michael Imelfort', 'Connor T Skennerton', 'Philip Hugenholtz', 'Gene W Tyson'], u'2015-05-20', u'Large-scale recovery of genomes from isolates, single cells, and metagenomic data has been made possible by advances in computational methods and substantial reductions in sequencing costs. While this increasing breadth of draft genomes is providing key information regarding the evolutionary and functional diversity of microbial life, it has become impractical to finish all available reference genomes. Making robust biological inferences from draft genomes requires accurate estimates of their completeness and contamination. Current methods for assessing genome quality are ad hoc and generally make use of a limited number of \u2018marker\u2019 genes conserved across all bacterial or archaeal genomes. Here we introduce CheckM, an automated method for assessing the quality of a genome using a broader set of marker genes specific to the position of a genome within a reference genome tree and information about the collocation of these genes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of CheckM using synthetic data and a wide range of isolate, single cell and metagenome derived genomes. CheckM is shown to provide accurate estimates of genome completeness and contamination, and to outperform existing approaches. Using CheckM, we identify a diverse range of errors currently impacting publicly available isolate genomes and demonstrate that genomes obtained from single cells and metagenomic data vary substantially in quality. In order to facilitate the use of draft genomes, we propose an objective measure of genome quality that can be used to select genomes suitable for specific gene- and genome-centric analyses of microbial communities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/554/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Australian Centre for Ecogenomics, School of Chemistry & Molecular Biosciences, The University of Queensland', u'Institute for Molecular Bioscience, The University of Queensland', u'Advanced Water Management Centre, The University of Queensland']]
[u'Secondary nucleation overcomes seeding template in amyloid-like fibril formation', ['Katazyna Milto', 'Tomas Sneideris', 'Vytautas Smirnovas'], u'2015-05-19', u'Prions are infectious proteins where the same protein may express distinct strains. The strains are enciphered by different misfolded conformations. Strain-like phenomena have also been reported in a number of other amyloid-forming proteins. One of the features of amyloid strains is the ability to self-propagate, maintaining a constant set of physical properties despite being propagated under conditions different from those that allowed initial formation of the strain. Here we report a cross-seeding experiment using strains formed under different conditions. Using high concentrations of seeds results in rapid elongation and new fibrils preserve the properties of the seeding fibrils. At low seed concentrations secondary nucleation plays the major role and new fibrils gain properties predicted by the environment rather than the structure of the seeds. Our findings could explain conformational switching between amyloid strains observed in a wide variety of in vivo and in vitro experiments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1101/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics'], [u'Department of Biothermodynamics and Drug Design, Vilnius University Institute of Biotechnology']]
[u'Bacteriophage richness reduces bacterial niche overlap in experimental microcosms', ['Miguel G. Matias', 'Dominique Gravel', 'Marine Combe', 'Timothee Poisot', 'Claire Barbera', 'Manon Lounnas', 'Thierry Bouvier', 'Nicolas Mouquet'], u'2015-05-19', u'Antagonistic interactions such as competition and predation shape the structure and dynamics of ecological communities. Their combined effects can affect the species richness within a particular trophic level. Despite theory linking the complementarity of interactions across trophic levels and ecosystem functioning, there is a shortage of empirical tests of such predictions. We present an experimental investigation of these combined effects within a bacteria-phage interaction network. We measured the biomass yield of combinations of bacterial strains under increasing levels of bacteriophage richness. Our results show an increasing impact of phage on bacteria with increasing phage diversity. In contrast, no combination of phages significantly changed the overall productivity of bacterial mixed cultures when compared with expectations based on bacterial monocultures. Finally, we found that the addition of phages decreases the realized niche overlap among pair of bacterial species with the greatest reduction occurring when all phages were present. Our results show that the productivity of this system is the results from the combined effects of exploitative (shared resources between bacteria) and apparent (shared phages between bacteria) competition.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1100/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Microbiology'], [u'Faculty of Life Sciences, Imperial College London', u'InBio/CIBIO, University of \xc9vora', u"Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution, UMR 5554, CNRS, Universit\xe9 Montpellier 2", u'D\xe9partement de biologie, chimie et g\xe9ographie, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Rimouski', u'Qu\xe9bec Center for Biodiversity Science', u'Instituto Cavanilles de Biodiversidad y Biolog\xeda Evolutiva', u'D\xe9partment des sciences biologiques, Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al', u'MIVEGEC, UMR IRD 224, CNRS 5290, Universit\xe9 de Montpellier', u'Laboratoire Ecologie des Syst\xe8mes Marins C\xf4tiers ECOSYM, UMR 5119, CNRS, IRD, Ifremer, Universit\xe9 Montpellier 2']]
[u'Human performance at old age', ['Jorn Rittweger'], u'2015-05-19', u'Force plates are a straightforward tool to assess human acceleration as an indicator of human performance. Understanding of the physical principle, and also of the test instruction is required to arrive at meaingful results and interpretations. Notably, performance and physiology levels can differ. A series of studies in healthy people has yielded that peak jumping power is a robust, ecological measure of performance and physiology. It shows a very pronounced decline with age. Morover, these studies reveal that sports is beneficial for muscles and bones. Some benefits by sports diminish with age (bone, muscle), but fracture reduction by sports extends into 10th decade of life.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1099/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Geriatrics', 'Orthopedics'], [u'Head of the Space Physiology Section, DLR - German Aerospace Center / Institute of Aerospace Medicine']]
[u'An ontology to support evidence-based Functional Behavioral Assessments', ['Davide Taibi', 'Giuseppe Chiazzese', 'Gianluca Merlo', 'Luciano Seta'], u'2015-05-19', u'The term Functional Behavioral Assessment (FBA) refers to a set of multiple assessment strategies aimed to identify specific antecedents and consequences that maintain a target behaviour (Du Paul, 1996). In the context of FBA, standards and protocols to support the data exchange between researchers, health professionals and therapist are under-represented. Moreover, there is a need for sharing common actions and assessment practices in order to improve the application of the FBA. To meet these goals, we propose the definition of an FBA ontology as a tool to describe three specific aspects related to individual, behavioural and assessment data in different contexts of everyday life such as school, family and social environments. The individual data include: diagnoses, medications, school information, discipline referrals and other events, thus providing a comprehensive overview of the individuals and the network of support people with specific roles that collaborates on the individual\u2019s care. The behavioural data include the description of an individual\xb4s target behaviour, and information about places and settings in which the behaviour occurs. The assessment gathers structural behavioural data collections, according to systematic direct observation, and in compliance to the ABC model (antecedents, behavior, and consequences) commonly used in the Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) for identifying behavioural functions, and designing intervention plans. This data is relevant in supporting statistical analysis in order to evaluate the efficacy of the behavioural treatments. Moreover, the FBA ontology provides a complete model that enables integration and interlinking with other Linked Open Data datasets and repositories thus supporting the sharing of appropriate resources such as behavioural patterns, effective intervention strategies, and behavioural treatments. Finally, the ontology provides the basis for the designing of software applications to support the functional assessment processes. This ontology has been applied in the framework of the WHAAM (Web Health Application for ADHD Monitoring) project, aimed to promote the FBA approach to the behavioural treatment of ADHD children. References: DuPaul, G. J., & Ervin, R. A. (1996). Functional assessment of behaviors related to attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: Linking assessment to intervention design. Behavior Therapy, 27(4).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1098/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Istituto per le Tecnologie Didattiche, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche']]
[u'Microview: a medical application focusing on the diagnosis of diseases', ['Alexandros Michopoulos', 'George Ntakakis', 'Stamoulis Zamanis', 'Efthimia Petinaki'], u'2015-05-19', u'MicroView was made to make the connection between medicine and mobile technology reality, in order to achieve that we transform the widely used mobile devices (smartphones, tablets) into diagnostic tools. MicroView is a medical application that focuses on the diagnosis of diseases whose causes or results can be detected in biological fluids such as CSF, urine and blood. The diagnosis is achieved by innovative image processing algorithms that detect the presence and the number of the white blood cells in the biological sample. The app has been tested in 37 urine and 23 CSF samples. The accuracy of the app was 92%. In conclusion the app offers a quicker, easier and friendlier diagnosis to young scientists but also experienced professionals can be benefit from it, since all images are in electronic form and can provide a way of result confirmation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1096/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki', u'Department of Computer Engineering, Technological Educational Institute of Thessaly', u'Department of Medicine, Division of Microbiology, University of Thessaly']]
[u'Genetic structure of Oryza glumaepatula wild rice populations and evidence of introgression from O. sativa in Costa Rica', ['Eric J Fuchs', 'Allan Meneses Martinez', 'Amanda Calvo', 'Melania Munoz', 'Griselda Arrieta-Espinoza'], u'2015-05-19', u'Wild crop relatives are an important source of genetic diversity for crop improvement. However, gene flow from cultivated species into wild species may prove detrimental. Introgression may lead to changes in wild species by incorporating alleles from domesticated species, which may increase the likelihood of extinction. The objective of the present study is to analyze how genetic diversity is distributed within and among populations of the wild rice species Oryza glumaepatula in Costa Rica. We also evaluated if there is evidence of introgression between wild rice and commercial varieties of O. sativa since it is cultivated commonly in close proximity to wild rice populations. Individuals from all known O. glumaepatula populations in Costa Rica were collected. With the aid of 455 AFLP markers, we characterized the genetic diversity and structure among seven populations in northern Costa Rica. Given the dominant nature of our markers, Bayesian estimates of genetic structure were used. We also compared genetic diversity estimates between O. glumaepatula individuals and O. sativa commercial rice. Our results show that O. glumaepatula populations in Costa Rica have moderately high levels of genetic diversity, comparable to those found in South American populations. This is likely a result of large population size. Despite the restricted distributions of this wild species, in Costa Rica most populations are composed of several thousand individuals, thus reducing the effects of drift on genetic diversity. Our results also found low but significant structure (\\theta=0.03\xb10.001) among populations that are separated by ~10 Km within a single river. The position of the population along the river did not influence genetic diversity estimates or differences among populations. This river does not have a strong current and meadows or seeds may easily move upstream, thus homogenizing genetic diversity across populations regardless of river position. Ample gene flow through pollen, seeds or detached culms within the same river reduces genetic structure. A Bayesian structure analysis showed that individuals from two populations share a significant proportion of their genomes with O. sativa genome. These results suggest that the low levels of genetic structure found in these populations are likely the result of introgression from cultivated O. sativa populations. These results expose an important biohazard as recurrent hybridization may reduce genetic diversity of this wild rice species. Introgression may transfer commercial traits into the only populations of O. glumaepatula in Costa Rica, which in turn could alter genetic diversity and increase the likelihood of local extinction. These results have important implications for in situ conservation strategies of the only wild populations of O. glumaepatula in Costa Rica.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1095/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Escuela de Biolog\xeda, Universidad de Costa Rica', u'Centro de Investigaci\xf3n en Biolog\xeda Celular y Molecular, Universidad de Costa Rica']]
[u'Allele specific expression in worker reproduction genes in the bumblebee Bombus terrestris', ['Harindra E Amarasinghe', 'Bradley J Toghill', 'Despina Nathanael', 'Eamonn B Mallon'], u'2015-05-19', u'Methylation has previously been associated with allele specific expression in ants. Recently, we found methylation is important in worker reproduction in the bumblebee Bombus terrestris. Here we searched for allele specific expression in twelve genes associated with worker reproduction in bees. We found allele specific expression in Ecdysone 20 monooxygenase and IMP-L2-like. Although we were unable to confirm a genetic or epigenetic cause for this allele specific expression, the expression patterns of the two genes match those predicted for imprinted genes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1094/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Leicester', u'Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester']]
[u'The role of information technologies in medical curriculum harmonisation', ['Martin Komenda', 'Daniel Schwarz', 'Ladislav Dusek'], u'2015-05-19', u'In this contribution a new comprehensive approach describing medical curriculum harmonisation will be introduced. Behind the whole concept stays original methodological background, which is trending towards an outcome-based paradigm, together with an engineering and development of new curriculum management system intended for for curriculum designers, guarantors and faculty management. It provides a clear and transparent composition of compulsory and optional courses, and easy identification of potential duplicities and overlaps across a domain of medical and healthcare education. For students, it means an absolutely new way of how to understand what is really taught during a learning period, including all necessary meta information such as type and range of teaching, related MeSH keywords and list of essential terms presented in particular lecture, seminar or clinical practice. Moreover it brings a new communication channel between all involved stakeholders including students at institution level. The broad overview shows that various existing curriculum management systems focus on the outcome-based paradigm only from a certain perspective offering the agenda together with selected functionalities. However, they are unable to cater all the needs on curriculum harmonisation of the today\u2019s higher education institutions. This is the reason why we decided to develop own web-based platform supporting guaranteed and more transparent building of curriculum including a control mechanisms in the form of deep inspection. Furthermore we will introduce a set of data mining and statistical methods in compliance with standardized and approved approaches, which are used for content analysis of a huge dataset extracted from a curriculum management system. These results may assist to identify potentially problematic areas and construct comprehensive overview of defined curriculum, because from the perspective of human cognition abilities, it is not possible to carefully read, verify and understand all learning units with all their linkages and co-dependencies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1093/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Biostatistics and Analyses, Masaryk University']]
[u'Forensic analysis of video steganography tools', ['Thomas Sloan', 'Julio Hernandez-Castro'], u'2015-05-18', u'Steganography is the art and science of concealing information in such a way that only the sender and intended recipient of a message should be aware of its presence. Digital steganography has been used in the past on a variety of media including executable files, audio, text, games and, notably, images. Additionally, there is increasing research interest towards the use of video as a media for steganography, due to its pervasive nature and diverse embedding capabilities. In this work, we examine the embedding algorithms and other security characteristics of several video steganography tools. We show how all feature basic and severe security weaknesses. This is potentially a very serious threat to the security, privacy and anonymity of their users. It is important to highlight that most steganography users have perfectly legal and ethical reasons to employ it. Some common scenarios would include citizens in oppressive regimes whose freedom of speech is compromised, people trying to avoid massive surveillance or censorship, political activists, whistle blowers, journalists, etc. As a result of our findings, we strongly recommend to cease any use of these tools, and to remove any contents that may have been hidden, and any carriers stored, exchanged and/or uploaded online. For many of these tools, carrier files will be trivial to detect, potentially compromising any hidden data and the parties involved in the communication. We finish this work by presenting our steganalytic results, that highlight a very poor current state of the art in practical video steganography tools. There is unfortunately a complete lack of secure and publicly available tools, and even commercial tools offer very poor security. We therefore encourage the steganography community to work towards the development of more secure and accessible video steganography tools, and make them available for the general public. The results presented in this work can also be seen as a useful resource for forensic examiners to determine the existence of any video steganography materials over the course of a computer forensic investigation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1019/', ['Security and Privacy'], [u'School of Computing, University of Kent']]
[u'Liver 3D modeling and hepatectomy simulation for the residents\u2019 preoperative education', ['Apollon Zygomalas', 'Vasileios Megalooikonomou', 'Dimitrios Koutsouris', 'Dimitrios Karavias', 'Ioannis Karagiannidis', 'Ioannis Maroulis', 'Konstantinos Giokas', 'Dionissios Karavias'], u'2015-05-18', u'Background. Liver segmentation from medical images produces high quality patient specific 3D liver models which are used for preoperative planning and intraoperative guidance. These 3D models can be manipulated and visualized in various ways and can be useful for residents\u2019 education. Objective. The aim of this study was to evaluate the implementation of a novel liver segmentation and hepatectomy simulation application as a tool for the residents\u2019 preoperative education. Method. We developed in MATLAB\xae 2013a a liver segmentation and preoperative planning application. Ten liver imaging datasets of a prospectively selected random sample of patients undergoing elective hepatectomies at our institution were used for liver segmentation and 3D modeling. Residents were asked to identify anatomical and pathological structures and propose liver resection plans. Intraoperatively, they could consult the computer models in real time. Their surgical scenarios were evaluated and discussed with specialized liver surgeons. Learning objectives were defined and their accomplishment was evaluated using the Kirkpatrick\u2019s four levels model. Results. The residents learned to 1) identify anatomical and pathological structures 2) calculate future liver remnant volume (FLR) from segmented liver images 3) propose liver resection plans based on FLR and liver vascular tree and tumor relations 4) consult liver medical images (CT and MRI) 5) understand the role of computer assisted surgery. They evaluated in-vivo their preoperative planning decisions and understood better the surgical operations. Conclusions. Our proposed liver segmentation and hepatectomy simulation application appears to be appropriate for the preoperative education of resident surgeons.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1092/', ['Surgery and Surgical Specialties', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Unit, University Hospital of Patras', u'Computer Engineering and Informatics Department, University of Patras', u'Biomedical Engineering Laboratory, National Technical University of Athens']]
[u'Protection of traditional medical knowledge under intellectual property law', ['Alexandra Alexandrou', 'Alkinoos Athanasiou', 'Panagiotis D Bamidis'], u'2015-05-18', u'Intellectual Property (IP) Law constitutes the legal framework that ensures the protection of original creations of the mind against their illicit use and misappropriation. Providing the original creator with his rights constitutes a problem in cases such as traditional knowledge and cultural expressions since the rights over a practice cannot be traced back to specific individuals. Traditional Medical Knowledge (TMK) describes the practices and knowledge gained by native indigenous populations which is passed on from generation to generation and which is conducive towards the development of medicinal research. These forms of medical know-how are multidimensional and are often closely linked to the cultural practices and the national identity of many indigenous populations. The lack of a means of legal protection for this source of knowledge is an issue that touches both upon economic and moral grounds. The industrial exploitation of TMK native to a country may not only undermine that country\u2019s economy and facilitate misappropriation; it may also have a negative impact on matters of national identity. This is an issue of ongoing importance, which has not yet been adequately met. Patents (a significant IP protection in the medical field) have little application to TMK. Trade secrets and geographical indications are other such solutions of limited usefulness in the protection of TMK but have been used in some countries alongside with sui generis systems and customary laws or practices. A possible solution example can be examined at initiatives such as the Traditional Knowledge Digital Library, which aims at documenting traditional medical literature on ancient Indian therapeutic practices. It is necessary that based upon current IP resolution methods a new means of protection is provided for that will enable all nationalities to safeguard their cultural diversity whilst respecting medical knowledge dissemination within the framework of a digital era.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1091/', ['Pharmacology', 'Legal Issues', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'School of Humanities, International Hellenic University', u'School of Medicine, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki']]
[u'Virtual hepatic surgery scenarios using manipulated real liver models', ['Apollon Zygomalas', 'Vasileios Megalooikonomou', 'Dimitrios Koutsouris', 'Dimitrios Karavias', 'Ioannis Karagiannidis', 'Theofilos Amanatidis', 'Ioannis Maroulis', 'Konstantinos Giokas', 'Dionissios Karavias'], u'2015-05-18', u'Background. High quality patient specific 3D liver models can be nowadays exported using computer liver segmentation algorithms. Specific 3D image editing tools can be used to manipulate the liver models and create virtual surgical cases. Objective. The aim of our study was to create virtual hepatic surgery scenarios using a novel liver segmentation and preoperative planning application and evaluating it as an educational tool. Method. A liver segmentation and preoperative planning application was developed on MATLAB\xae 2013a. Special image editing tools were designed to allow manipulation of the exported 3D liver models. Three pathological and two liver imaging datasets from healthy patients were used for the validation. The 3D liver models which have been created after liver segmentation were then manipulated by; 1) changing tumors\u2019 volumes, 2) adding tumors and 3) designing liver injuries. Addition fictitious clinical information were implemented. Residents were asked to study the virtual cases and propose resection plans. Their scenarios were evaluated and discussed with specialized liver surgeons. The Kirkpatrick\u2019s four levels model of learning evaluation was used. Results. Up to 30 different virtual liver surgical cases were created. The number of virtual scenarios that could be designed is theoretically unlimited. The residents quickly and effectively learned to evaluate critical anatomical and pathological structures and propose liver resection plans considering liver surgery principles. Conclusions. Virtual hepatic surgery scenarios allowed for a rapid education without the need to wait for similar real cases. The proposed liver segmentation and hepatectomy simulation application can be used for educational purposes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1090/', ['Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Computer Engineering and Informatics Department, University of Patras', u'Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Unit, University Hospital of Patras', u'Biomedical Engineering Laboratory, National Technical University of Athens']]
[u'Turtles of the genus Sakya (Geoemydidae): new material from the late Miocene of Russia and Ukraine, new taxonomic diversity and expansion of the stratigraphic range', ['Elena Syromyatnikova', 'Igor Danilov'], u'2015-05-18', u'Background. Sakya Bogachev, 1960 is a genus of geoemydid turtles with unusual scalation of the carapace consisting of 9\u201310 vertebrals and 8\u201310 pairs of pleurals. It is known from Neogene localities of Eastern Europe and includes two species: Sakya riabinini (Khosatzky, 1946) (= S. pontica Bogachev, 1960), from the late Miocene (MN13) to early Pleistocene of Eastern Europe (Moldova, Romania, Russia, and Ukraine) and Sakya kolakovskii Chkhikvadze, 1968 from the Pliocene of Abkhazia. Attribution of Melanochelys etuliensis Khosatzky and Redkozubov, 1986 from the early Pliocene of Moldova to Sakya is poorly corroborated. Here we report new material of Sakya from the late Miocene of Russia and Ukraine, which, probably, belongs to one or two new species of this genus and expands its stratigraphic distribution. Methods. We examined new material of Sakya, that includes posterior part of carapace and incomplete plastron from Morskaya 2 locality (MN 13, Rostov Province, Russia), incomplete carapace and plastron from Egorovka locality (MN 12, Odessa Province, Ukraine), and fragmentary shell remains from Fortepianka locality (MN 11, Republic of Adygea, Russia). For comparison we used published data and personal observations on other specimens of Sakya. Results. The specimens from Morskaya 2 and Egorovka are assigned to Sakya based on the presence of increased number of vertebrals and pleurals. Both specimens differ from the described species of Sakya by reduced number of vertebrals (seven in the Morskaya 2 specimen, and five in the Egorovka specimen), and extension of the posteriormost vertebral onto pygal. In addition, they differ from S. riabinini in the presence of eight neurals, longer than wide pleurals, and from S. kolakovskii in the presence of two suprapygals and serrated posterior edge of the carapace. The material from Fortepianka is too fragmentary for detailed comparison, but also differs from S. riabinini in the reduced number of vertebrals. Discussion. The reported material may represent one or two new species of Sakya. The reduced number of vertebrals in these forms probably represents a primitive condition, whereas the extension of the posteriormost vertebral onto the pygal may be a synapomorphy, which unites the new forms. Thus, the Morskaya 2 and Egorovka specimens of Sakya may represent a separate primitive lineage of this genus. In this case, S. kolakovskii and S. riabinini form a more advanced clade with increased number of carapacial scales. These issues as well as phylogenetic position of Sakya within Geoemydidae will be checked by future phylogenetic analysis. The Sakya material from Fortepianka (MN11, late Sarmatian) represents the earliest reliable record of this genus, known previously beginning from MN 12 (Meotic).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1089/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Department of Herpetology, Zoological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Morphology of cervical vertebrae of Annemys and variability of neck morphotypes in xinjiangchelyid turtles', ['Ekaterina Obraztsova', 'Igor Danilov'], u'2015-05-18', u'Background. Xinjiangchelyidae are a group of basal cryptodires from the Middle Jurassic \u2013 Early Cretaceous of Asia and Early Cretaceous of Europe. Recent studies show that xinjiangchelyids are rather uniform and conservative in their shell morphology and comparatively more variable in skull shape. Morphology and variability of cervical vertebra(e) (CV) of xinjiangchelyids remain poorly known. More or less complete series of CV were described for Xinjiangchelys qiguensis and X. tianshanensis, whereas for other xinjiangchelyids they are alternately unknown or often incomplete, deformed and need additional preparation. Methods. We examined several hundred isolated CV of a xinjiangchelyid Annemys sp. from the Middle Jurassic (Bathonian) Itat Formation of Berezovsk Quarry, Krasnoyarsk Territory, West Siberia, Russia. Some of these CV are well preserved and three-dimensional and allow reconstruction of the complete series of CV of Annemys. Results. The formula of CV is (2(3()4()5()6()7()8), although C8 is rarely amphicoelous. Previously, xinjiangchelyids were thought to have only amphicoelous CV. All CV are relatively short (similar to other forms of Annemys, shorter than in X. tianshanensis and much shorter than in X. qiguensis). The anterior and posterior central articulations are approximately on one level. The anterior central articulations form a wide triangle (C2), equilateral triangle (C3, C4), or wide oval (C5\u2013C8); the posterior central articulations form a narrow oval (C2\u2013C5, C8), roundish (C6) or wide oval (C7). The ventral keel is low on the anterior CV and high on C7 and C8, a condition similar to some sinemydids/macrobaenids and more advanced cryptodires. The parapophyses are located at the posteroventral edge of the centrum in C2\u2013C5, and at the anteroventral edge of the centrum in C6\u2013C8. The articular surfaces of the prezygapophyses face dorsolateral in C2 or dorsomedial in more posterior CV, forming an angle of about 20\xb0 from the horizontal in C3 and C4 and about 30\u201335\xb0 in C5\u2013C8. The postzygapophyses are widely separated, unlike X. qiguensis and similar to other forms of Annemys and X. tianshanensis. Isolated cervical ribs are present in the material, but their associations with CV are unclear. Discussion. Our study shows that xinjiangchelyids were more variable in the morphology of their CV than thought previously. They demonstrate three neck morphotypes: the short-necked (Annemys), medium-necked (X. tianshanensis) and long-necked (X. qiguensis). In addition to length of CV, these morphotypes differ in cervical formula, shapes of central articulations, and patterns of cervical rib attachment. Morphology of the CV of Annemys suggests the possibility of both vertical and lateral movements of the neck that agrees with recent studies on neck mobility of primitive turtles.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1088/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Department of Vertebrate Zoology, Saint Petersburg State University', u'Department of Herpetology, Zoological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Late Cretaceous non-marine turtles of Asia: a review of taxonomic diversity and paleobiogeography', ['Igor Danilov', 'Ekaterina Obraztsova', 'Vladimir Sukhanov'], u'2015-05-18', u'Background. This report reviews data on taxonomic diversity and paleobiogeography of Late Cretaceous (K2) non-marine turtles of Asia accumulated since latest reviews in 2000s. K2 non-marine turtles of Asia are known from four main geographical areas: Middle Asia-Kazakhstan (MAK), Mongolia (MO), China (CH) and Japan (JA). Methods. We critically reviewed composition of non-marine turtle assemblages of the K2 for each of the mentioned geographical area to make estimates of taxonomic diversity for different ages of the K2. Based on these data we analyzed temporal distribution of taxa of non-marine turtles and change in taxonomic diversity of turtle assemblages. Results. K2 turtles of MAK are represented by eight suprageneric taxa \u2013 Adocidae (Ad), Carettochelyidae (Ca), Lindholmemydidae (Li), Macrobaenidae (Ma), Nanhsiungchelyidae (Na), Trionychidae (Tr), Eucryptodira indet. (Eu), and Testudines indet. (Te), of which Ad, Li, Ma and Tr are known from the Cenomanian(CE) \u2013 early Campanian(CA), whereas other taxa only from the CE-early Turonian(TU). Taxonomic diversity changes from 10\u201312 species and genera, 6\u20138 suprageneric taxa in the CE to 7 species and genera, 4 families in the late TU early CA. K2 turtles of MO are represented by seven suprageneric taxa \u2013 Ad, Ca, Li, Ma, Meiolaniformes (Me), Na, and Tr, of which Li, Na and Tr are known from the CE-Maastrichtian(MA), Ad, Ca, and Ma, from the CE-Santonian(SA), and Me, only from the MA. Taxonomic diversity changes from 12 species, 10 genera, 6 families in the CE \u2013 SA, 8\u20139 species, 7\u20139 genera, 3 families in the CA, and 9 species, 7\u20138 genera, and 4 suprageneric taxa in the MA. K2 turtles of CH are represented by three suprageneric taxa (Li, Na, and Tr), but their precise temporal distribution is poorly known. Taxonomic diversity in the K2 is 12 species, 11\u201312 genera, and 3 families. K2 turtles of JA are represented by six suprageneric taxa (Ad, Ca, Na, Tr, Eu, and Te), of which Na are known from the CE-SA, Tr from the Coniacian(CO)-CA, and other taxa from the CO-SA. Taxonomic diversity changes from 1 species, genus, and family in the CE-TU to 7 species and genera, and 5\u20136 suprageneric taxa in the CO-SA. Discussion. In MAK, most significant transformation of turtle assemblages occurred in the CE-TU, whereas transformation in the SA-CA was less significant. On the contrary, in MO, most significant transformation occurred in the SA-CA, and less significant in the CA-MA.The patterns of transformation of the K2 turtle assemblages of CH and JA are not clear. The differences in the patterns of diversity and transformations of the K2 turtle assemblages in different geographical areas of Asia may be explained by different environmental conditions in these areas at that time and influence of such factors as transgressions in coastal areas (MAK and JA) and cooling and aridizations in inland areas (MO and CH).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1087/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Herpetology, Zoological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences', u'Department of Vertebrate Zoology, Saint Petersburg State University', u'Borisyak Paleontological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Rotation survival forest for right censored data', ['Lifeng Zhou', 'Qingsong Xu', 'Hong Wang'], u'2015-05-18', u'Recently, survival ensembles have found more and more applications in biological and medical research when censored time-to-event data are often confronted. In this research, we investigate the plausibility of extending rotation forest, originally proposed for classification purpose, to survival analysis. Supported by the proper statistical analysis, we show that rotation survival forests are able to outperform the state-of-art survival ensembles on right censored data. We also provide a C-index based variable importance measure for evaluating covariates in censored survival data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1086/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Mathematics and Statistics, Central South University']]
[u'PAME: Plasmonic Assay Modeling Environment', ['Adam S Hughes', 'Mark E. Reeves', 'Zhaowen Liu'], u'2015-05-16', u'Plasmonic assays are an important class of optical sensors that measure biomolecular interactions in real-time without the need for labeling agents, making them especially well-suited for clinical applications. Through the incorporation of nanoparticles and fiberoptics, these sensing systems have been successfully miniaturized and show great promise for in-situ probing and implantable devices, yet it remains challenging to derive meaningful, quantitative information from plasmonic responses. This is in part due to a lack of dedicated modeling tools, and therefore we introduce PAME, an open-source Python application for modeling plasmonic systems of bulk and nanoparticle-embedded metallic films. PAME combines aspects of thin-film solvers, nanomaterials and fiber-optics into an intuitive graphical interface. Some of PAME\u2019s features include a simulation mode, a database of hundreds of materials, and an object-oriented framework for designing complex nanomaterials, such as a gold nanoparticles encased in a protein shell. An overview of PAME\u2019s theory and design is presented, followed by example simulations of a fiberoptic refractometer, as well as protein binding to a multiplexed sensor composed of a mixed layer of gold and silver colloids. These results provide new insights into observed responses in reflectance biosensors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1085/', ['Computational Biology', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Physics, The George Washington University']]
[u'Assessment of the environmental health status of the Marchica lagoon (Morocco, Mediterranean) using Cymodocea nodosa meadows and its associated macrofauna: preliminary results', ['Reda El Kamcha', 'Oussama Bououarour', 'Loubna Boutahar', 'Zineb El Fatouani', 'Ayoub El Adnani', 'Bendahhou Zourarah', 'Yassine Ramzi Sghaier', 'Abdelaziz Benhoussa', 'Hocein Bazairi'], u'2015-05-15', u'The Marchica lagoon is the single lagoon on the Mediterranean coast of Morocco. Beside its ecological and socio-economic values, the lagoon is under pressure of a complex mixture of human-mediated stressors (urbanization, pollution, overfishing, tourism, etc.). Nowadays, many institutional efforts have been undertaken to establish a sustainable management plan of the lagoon in the context of an Integrated Coastal Zone Management (ICZM) approach. Thus, understanding how these stressors impact upon ecological status and ecosystem services is a sound step for any efficient integral management. Based on sampling performed on June 2014, the present work aimed at assessing the ecological quality status (ES) of the northern part of the lagoon using Cymodocea nodosa (Ucria) Ascherson meadows and benthic macrofauna. 16 stations (11 with C. nodosa and 5 on bare sediment) were sampled using a Van Veen grab. Preliminary results showed differences between stations. Shoots biomass fluctuated between 8.02 and 61.2 g dw m-2 while the roots-rhizomes biomass oscillated between 10.8 and 235.5 g dw m-2. The root-rhizome and leaf biomass ratio revealed high values (up to 10.8) in the central sector suggesting a potential nutrient enrichment.Benthic macrofauna revealed the presence of 90 species belonging to six zoological groups and dominated by crustaceans, molluscs and polychaetes. The assessment of the ecological quality status, based on benthic macrofauna, was evaluated using Biotic Indices (AMBI, M-AMBI, Benthix, BITS). The results showed partial agreement between single index-derived ES and underlined the dependency of these biotic indices on the habitat characteristics, on the one hand, and the necessity to define specific reference conditions to the Marchica lagoon.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1082/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Faculty of Sciences, University Mohammed V', u'Department of Geology, Faculty of Sciences, University Chouaib Doukkali', u'Regional Activity Centre for Specially Protected Areas, RAC/SPA']]
[u'Selection in the dopamine receptor 2 gene: New candidate SNPs for disease-related studies', ['Tobias Gollner', 'Martin Fieder'], u'2015-05-15', u'Dopamine is a major neurotransmitter in the human brain and is associated with various diseases. Schizophrenia, for example, is treated by blocking the dopamine receptors type 2. In 2009, Shaner, Miller and Mintz stated that schizophrenia was the low fitness variant of a highly variable mental trait. We therefore explore whether the dopamine receptor 2 gene (DRD2) underwent any selection processes. We acquired genotype data of the 1000 Genomes project (phase I), which contains 1093 individuals from 14 populations. We included only single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with a minor allele frequency (MAF) of over 0.05 in the analysis. This is equivalent to 151 SNPs for DRD2. We used two different approaches (an outlier approach and a Bayesian approach) to detect loci under selection. The combined results of both approaches yielded nine candidate SNPs under balancing selection. While directional selection strongly favours one allele over all others, balancing selection favours more than one allele. All candidates are in the intronic region of the gene and only one (rs12574471) has been mentioned in the literature. Two of our candidate SNPs are located in specific regions of the gene: rs80215768 lies within a promoter flanking region and rs74751335 lies within a transcription factor binding site. We strongly encourage research on our candidate SNPs and their possible phenotypic effects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1083/', ['Anthropology', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics'], [u'Department of Anthropology, University of Vienna']]
[u'From the \u201cancestar\u201d of turtles to the turtle-mouse: when Greek words are used for turtle taxon names', ['Evangelos Vlachos'], u'2015-05-15', u'Background. Regardless using a rank-based or a phylogenetic nomenclature code, the use of Latinized binomens to describe the extant and extinct species has been essential. Ever since the times of Linnaeus, the use of Latinized Greek names has been a common practice both for neontologists and paleontologists.\nMethods. I critically analyzed the most common Greek words used as taxa names in the chelonian literature to establish their etymology and check whether the transliteration process has been done correctly. I also compared the current guidelines for the latinisation of Greek words recommended by the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, with other alternative systems for the transformation of names formed in the Greek alphabet into Latin-based languages.\nResults. The preliminary results show that some Greek words (e.g. Chelone, Emys) dominate the chelonian nomenclature, but the history of the application of many of those names is intriguing. The use of Greek words is quite common in turtle taxa names when the name describes physical properties of the animal (size, shape, colour). However, several unfortunate examples exist, as some quite successful and famous names contain misspellings or poor choice of words that resulted in meanings opposite from the ones intended by the authors.\nDiscussion. Naming species is an integral part of the research of both neontologists and palaeontologists, but the application of Greek words to life sciences is even far more extensive, applied to numerous terminologies as well. Forming a proper name for a taxon could aid significantly to the communication and interpretation of the scientific results. Publishing a new name requires a sense of responsibility as well, as the formation of a taxon name is a unique linguistic procedure. But in the end, to add a taxonomic side to the old shakespearean question, is not the name that is important, but the information it conveys. That which we call a turtle by any other name would be as unique.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1081/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'CONICET and Museo Paleontol\xf3gico Egidio Feruglio', u'School of Geology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki']]
[u'The blue-green eggs of dinosaurs: How fossil metabolites provide insights into the evolution of bird reproduction', ['Jasmina Wiemann', 'Tzu-Ruei Yang', 'Philipp N. N Sander', 'Marion Schneider', 'Marianne Engeser', 'Stephanie Kath-Schorr', 'Christa E Muller', 'P. Martin Sander'], u'2015-05-15', u'Open-nesting birds use biological pigments in eggshell to camouflage their unhatched offspring, varying the colour to account for the nesting environment and location. The tetrapyrrolic pigments protoporphyrin (PP) and biliverdin (BV), which both participate in the haem metabolism, are responsible for the reddish brown of chicken eggs and the brilliant blue of robin and emu eggs. However, eggshell pigmentation correlates with the nest type in a wide range of avian species and suggests that coloured eggs are basal to the avian lineage, extending back to their non-avian dinosaur origins. Detecting preserved eggshell pigments could thus shed light on dinosaur nesting behaviour. Using HPLC separation coupled to ESI-Q-TOF mass spectrometry, we here provide the first record of the eggshell pigments PP and BV preserved in fossils from three different localities, in 66 million year-old oviraptorid eggshell (Macroolithus yaotunensis). These eggs were presumably laid in at least partially open nests by the oviraptorid Heyuannia huangi and camouflaged by an originally blue-greenish egg colouration. Such a blue-greenish eggshell pigmentation hints at increased paternal care in Heyuannia. Shell porosity measurements, preserved clutches and parental animals support an open nesting behaviour for oviraptorid dinosaurs. Furthermore, the detection of PP, together with supporting microscopic observations, represents the first evidence for cuticle preservation in fossil eggshell. Our study demonstrates that molecular biomarkers, such as preserved metabolites, can be used to trace the evolution of modern avian traits, and to provide insights into dinosaur reproductive biology and the preservation of endogenous organic matter in fossil vertebrates.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1080/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology', 'Paleontology'], [u'Steinmann Institute for Geology, Mineralogy and Palaeontology, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms Universit\xe4t Bonn', u'Life and Medical Sciences Institute, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms Universit\xe4t Bonn', u'PharmaCenter Bonn, Pharmaceutical Institute, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms Universit\xe4t Bonn', u'Kekul\xe9 Institute for Organic Chemistry and Biochemistry, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms Universit\xe4t Bonn']]
[u'A corpus-based analysis of potential linguistic indicators of corporate deception in tobacco industry documents', ['Cati Brown-Johnson', 'Donald Rubin'], u'2015-05-15', u'Introduction: To more fully understand the impact of specific language attributes on deception in corporate communication, we used a stratified random sample of tobacco industry documents to test a small number of individual potential automated linguistic indicators of corporate deception: cognitive-emotional verbs, allness and superlative terms, nonbinding verbs, and group mentality. Methods: Texts from the Tobacco Documents Corpus were categorized by audience addressed (industry internal/external) and company of origin, and compared for incidence of the deceptive language indicators. Results: Cognitive-emotional verbs were strongly associated with likely deception and most prevalent for external audiences and documents produced by the Tobacco Institute, an industry front group. Cognitive-emotional verbs include believe, think, seem, feel and realize, in opposition to action verbs (e.g. throw). Discussion: Linguistic measurements of cognitive-emotional verbs may help pinpoint deceptive and misleading corporate communication. Verb choice and the use of different classes of verbs may reflect corporate linguistic deception.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1079/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Computational Linguistics', 'Natural Language and Speech'], [u'Stanford Prevention Research Center, Stanford School of Medicine', u'Center for Health & Risk Communication, University of Georgia']]
[u'A new method to analyze species abundances in space using generalized dimensions', ['Leonardo A Saravia'], u'2015-05-15', u'Species-area relationships (SAR) and species abundance distributions (SAD) are among the most studied patterns in ecology, due to their application to both theoretical and conservation issues. One problem with these general patterns is that different theories can generate the same predictions, and for this reason they cannot be used to detect different mechanisms of community assembly. A solution is to search for more sensitive patterns, for example by extending the SAR to the whole species abundance distribution. A generalized dimension ($D_q$) approach has been proposed to study the scaling of SAD, but to date there has been no evaluation of the ability of this pattern to detect different mechanisms. An equivalent way to express SAD is the rank abundance distribution (RAD). Here I introduce a new way to study SAD scaling using a spatial version of RAD: the species-rank surface (SRS), which can be analyzed using $D_q$. Thus there is an old $D_q$ based on SAR ($D_q^{SAD}$), and a new one based on SRS ($D_q^{SRS}$). I perform spatial simulations to examine the relationship of $D_q$ with SAD, spatial patterns and number of species. Finally I compare the power of both $D_q$, SAD, SAR exponent, and the fractal information dimension to detect different community patterns using a continuum of hierarchical and neutral spatially explicit models. The SAD, $D_q^{SAD}$ and $D_q^{SRS}$ all had good performance in detecting models with contrasting mechanisms. $D_q^{SRS}$, however, had a better fit to data and allowed comparisons between hierarchical communities where the other methods failed. The SAR exponent and information dimension had low power and should not be used. SRS and $D_q^{SRS}$ could be interesting methods to study community or macroecological patterns.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/745/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'\xc1rea Biolog\xeda y Bioinform\xe1tica, Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento']]
[u'Response of the rare biosphere to environmental disturbance in a highly diverse ecosystem (Zodletone spring, OK, USA)', ['Suzanne Coveley', 'Mostafa S Elshahed', 'Noha H. Youssef'], u'2015-05-14', u'Within highly diverse ecosystems, the majority of bacterial taxa are present in low abundance as members of the rare biosphere. The rationale for the occurrence and maintenance of the rare biosphere, and the putative ecological role(s) and dynamics of its members within a specific ecosystem is currently debated. We hypothesized that in highly diverse ecosystems, a fraction of the rare biosphere acts as a backup system that readily responds to environmental disturbances. We tested this hypothesis by subjecting sediments from Zodletone spring, a sulfide- and sulfur-rich spring in southwestern OK, to incremental levels of salinity (1, 2, 3, 4, and 10% NaCl), or temperature (280, 300, 320, and 700C), and traced the trajectories of rare members of the community in response to these manipulations using 16S rRNA gene analysis. Our results indicate that multiple rare bacterial taxa are promoted from rare to abundant members of the community following such manipulations and that, in general, the magnitude of such recruitment is directly proportional to the severity of the applied manipulation. Rare members that are phylogenetically distinct from abundant taxa in the original sample (unique rare biosphere) played a more important role in the microbial community response to environmental disturbances, compared to rare members that are phylogenetically similar to abundant taxa in the original sample (non-unique rare biosphere). The results emphasize the dynamic nature of the rare biosphere, and highlight its complexity and non-monolithic nature.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1078/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Oklahoma State University']]
[u'Geometric morphometric analysis of the skull of Podocnemis spp. (Pleurodira, Podocnemididae) and its implications on the taxonomic status of Podocnemis bassleri Williams, 1956', ['Pedro S. R. Romano', 'Sergio A. K. Azevedo', 'Alexander W. A. Kellner', 'Gustavo R. Oliveira'], u'2015-05-14', u'Background. Podocnemis bassleri Williams, 1956 is the oldest definite record for Podocnemis, dating back to the Miocene of South America. However, the diagnosis of P. ba. is fragile, as assumed by Williams himself. Here we evaluated the hypothesis of P. ba. as a synonym of P. expansa by exploring the shape variation of the skull among Podocnemis spp. Methods. We collected 19 landmarks on the left side of the skull in ventral view from 33 Podocnemis spp. skulls. We included in the sample a new specimen of P. ba. from the Miocene of Acre, Brazil (MCT/RJ unnumbered) and the holotype (AMNH 1662) from the Miocene of Peru, along with: P. erythrocephala (n=3), P. ex. (n=9), P. lewyana (n=1), P. sextuberculata (n=9), P. unifilis (n=6), and P. vogli (n=3). The data was then Procrustes superimposed and a Relative Warps Analysis (RW) was performed to evaluate shape variation. Also, a multivariate regression of the Partial Warps (i.e.: the eigenvectors of the \u201cbending energy\u201d matrix) versus the log-transformed centroid size (the independent variable) was computed in order to evaluate the allometry in the data. All analyses were fulfilled using Rohlf\u2019s TPS softwares. Results. The two first RWs accumulated ~52% of shape variation. The individual projection of the specimens in RW1 and RW2 showed a structure partially explained by a phylogenetic signal. P. ex. and P. se., previously considered as sister-groups, were projected in the negative scores of RW1. Also, these two species were projected, respectively, in the positive and negative scores of the RW2. The two specimens of P. ba. were nested among P. ex. specimens. Furthermore, the multivariate regression revealed an effect of the size in the shape variation: larger skulls have wider maxillae and posterior region laterally extended. Discussion. According to the literature, P. ex. and P. ba. are nearly indistinguishable (besides the larger size of the second), and Williams seems to have used the Miocene age of the second as a criterion for differentiating the two taxa. Indeed, one of the diagnostic features pointed out by Williams \u2013 slightly shorter relative distance from snout tip to posterior borders of the orbits \u2013 seems to be a taphonomic outcome. Moreover, the second diagnostic character \u2013 internal palatal processes of the maxillae abruptly dorsally projected \u2013 is extended anteroposteriorly in the MCT/RJ P. ba. specimen, as in all recent taxa. So, this character is polymorphic or also results of a taphonomic outcome. As consequence, P. ba. lacks a suitable diagnosis. Our preliminary results revealed little differences in shape of P. ex. and P. ba. and a clear allometric effect in the shape variation. In conclusion, it seems reasonable to suggest that P. ba. is a junior synonym of P. ex., although we will wait to claim it after additional analyses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1077/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Vi\xe7osa', u'Departamento de Geologia e Paleontologia, Museu Nacional, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro', u'Departamento de Biologia, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco']]
[u'Spatial patterns of the Zostera noltei meadows across the Atlantic coast of Morocco: is there a latitudinal gradient?', ['Oussama Bououarour', 'Reda El Kamcha', 'Loubna Boutahar', 'Ali Tnoumi', 'Bendahhou Zourarah', 'Abdelaziz Benhoussa', 'Hocein Bazairi'], u'2015-05-14', u'Seagrass meadows exist in most shallow, sheltered, soft-bottomed marine coastlines and estuaries throughout the world and rank among the most productive systems in the ocean. Zostera noltei Hornemann is a small seagrass largely widespread in intertidal areas of Western Europe and North-West Africa, the Mediterranean Sea and in the Black Sea.\nIn Morocco, intertidal Zostera noltei meadows were identified at six coastal ecosystems across c.a. 2500 km of its Atlantic coast (Tahaddart estuary, Moulay Bousselham, Sidi Moussa, Oualidia, Khnifiss lagoons and Dakhla Bay). The present work aimed at assessing the spatial and latitudinal variation of Z. noltei meadows by measuring the density of shoots, leaf biomass, root-rhizome biomass, number of leaf /shoot and the average length and width of leafs. Samples were conducted between December 2014 and January 2015, using a hand PVC corer (12.5 of diameter). When possible, a downstream and upstream comparison is performed in each site.\nDensity of shoots fluctuated between 1972 and 9833 shoots m-2. Leaves biomass varied between 32 and 259 gDW/m2 and root-rhizome biomass oscillated between 21 and 314 gDW/m2. Number of leaves per shoot fluctuated between 2.47 and 3.4 leaf per shoot, the leaf length between 4.9 and 30.8 cm and the leaf width 0.6 and 2 mm. These results showed, on the one hand, a clear spatial variation across a downstream-upstream gradient in each site and, on the other hand, a latitudinal pattern in the biomass and morphometry of the Z. noltei meadows across the Atlantic coast of Morocco. Significant differences were evidenced for all variables (ANOVA, p<0.05). The root-rhizome biomass and density of shoots are higher southward while the number of leaves per shoot, leaf biomass and the average length and width of the leaves are greater northward.\nThese results are compared with literature data from the distribution range of Z. noltei. Further analysis regarding the genetics, the associated benthic invertebrates and the sediment contamination are being performed and will increase the knowledge on such ecosystems and help in understanding their interaction with environment conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1076/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Faculty of Sciences, University Mohammed V', u'Faculty of Sciences, University Chouaib Doukkali']]
[u'Mining usage patterns for the Android API', ['Hudson S Borges', 'Marco Tulio Valente'], u'2015-05-14', u'API methods are not used alone, but in groups and following patterns. However, despite being a key information for API users, most usage patterns are not described in official API documents. In this article, we report a study that evaluates the feasibility of automatically enriching API documents with information on usage patterns. For this purpose, we mine and analyze 1,952 usage patterns, from a set of 396 Android applications. As part of our findings, we report that the Android API has many undocumented and non-trivial usage patterns, which can be inferred using association rule mining algorithms. We also describe a field study where a version of the original Android documentation is instrumented with the extracted usage patterns. During 17 months, this documentation received 77,863 visits from professional Android developers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1075/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computer Science, Federal University of Minas Gerais']]
[u'Pinna nobilis within a Posidonia oceanica meadow: evidences of how hydrodynamics define this association in the Gulf of Oristano (West Sardinia, Italy)', ['Stefania Coppa', 'Andrea Cucco', 'Giovanni De Falco', 'Giorgio Massaro', 'Andrea Camedda', 'Stefano Marra', 'Simone Simeone', 'Alessandro Conforti', 'Renato Tonielli', 'Giuseppe de Lucia'], u'2015-05-14', u"The fan mussel Pinna nobilis is the largest bivalve of the Mediterranean Sea, declared protected since 1992. It is a sessile suspension feeder endemic of this basin which lives mainly on soft sediments colonized by seagrass meadows. This study considers a population living within a Posidonia oceanica bed in the Gulf of Oristano (W Sardinia, Italy), a site included within a Marine Protected Area and in two Sites of Community Importance. Based on field surveys conducted in 2007, 2009 and 2014 differences in density, size, and shell burial level of P. nobilis were investigated in relation to meadow's distribution and characteristics. Moreover, the spatial differences in density and orientation of P. nobilis were related to hydrological features. P. nobilis showed a mean density of 4.06\xb11.13 ind./100 m2 and a significant increase in population size was observed between 2009 and 2014. A high-resolution multibeam survey revealed that the P. oceanica bed was characterized by a striped structure. Toward the inner sheltered sector of Gulf, the meadow became hill-shaped. A comparison between meadow structure and P. nobilis distribution showed that specimens are mainly located at the edge of the channels within the striped meadow, whereas the edge effect resulted less noticeable within the hill-shaped meadow. The compactness of the seabed influences the shell stability: the burial level decreased with the increasing of fine sediments. Bottom current direction and speed are the main factors influencing shell orientation, whereas wave action is negligible. Where bottom current speed exceeded 0.07 m/s specimens resulted in line with the prevalent current direction with the ventral side exposed to incoming flow. These features suggest that feeding strategy is an important factor in determining shell orientation, possibly in addition to drag. Food availability could be the driving force in determining the patchiness distribution of P. nobilis population with higher values in those sites close to the mouth of the lagoons, in sedimentation area or in the meadow channels where the water flow is conveyed. These findings contribute to increase the knowledge on the P. nobilis-P. oceanica association and provide useful information for improving conservation measures.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1074/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Istituto per l\u2019Ambiente Marino Costiero (IAMC-CNR)', u'Area Marina Protetta \u201cPenisola del Sinis - Isola di Mal di Ventre\u201d', u'Dipartimento di Ecologia e Biologia (DEB), Universit\xe0 della Tuscia', u'Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Istituto per l\u2019Ambiente Marino Costiero (IAMC-CNR)']]
[u'Preliminary data on the Posidonia meadows and associated macrozoobenthic community of Sazani island (Albania)', ['Jula Selmani', 'Stela Ruci', 'Denada Kasemi', 'Sajmir Beqiraj', 'Lefter Kashta'], u'2015-05-14', u'The seagrass Posidonia oceanica meadows are scarcely studied in the Albanian coast. Data presented in this work have been collected during an assessment of benthic communities of Sazani Island, Albania, in May 2013. The P. oceanica meadow has a limited distribution around this island, covering a relatively small area on its eastern coast. Although this meadow seems to be under degradation, it is still a good shelter for high species number and high abundance of benthic macroinvertebrates. The highest species richness and abundance has been recorded for sponges, hydrozoans, gastropods, bivalves, polychaetes, echinoderms, bryozoans and ascidians. The sciaphilic and photophilic communities were clearly evident, associated respectively to the P. oceanica rhizomes and leaves. Referring to the species richness and abundance, a rapid assessment of ecological and environmental state of benthic macroinvertebrate community has been done. Other parameters used for the assessment of the state of P. oceanica meadow have also been recorded, and possible reasons for the degradation of the meadow have been highlighted. These assessments of the benthic macroinvertebrate community and the state of seagrass meadow are also important within the framework of monitoring, conservation and management of the only Marine Protected Area of Albania, where Sazani Island is a core area.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1073/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Biology Department, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Tirana University', u'Biology Department, Faculty of Technical Sciences, University of Vlora', u'Research Center for Flora and Fauna, Faculty of Natural Sciences, Tirana University']]
[u'Comprehensive comparison of large-scale tissue expression datasets', ['Alberto Santos', 'Kalliopi Tsafou', 'Christian Stolte', 'Sune Pletscher-Frankild', "Sean  O'Donoghue", 'Lars Juhl Jensen'], u'2015-05-14', u'For tissues to carry out their functions, they rely on the right proteins to be present. Several high-throughput technologies have been used to map out which proteins are expressed in which tissues; however, the data have not previously been systematically compared and integrated. We present a comprehensive evaluation of tissue expression data from a variety of experimental techniques and show that these agree surprisingly well with each other and with results from literature curation and text mining. We further found that most datasets support the assumed but not demonstrated distinction between tissue-specific and ubiquitous expression. By developing comparable confidence scores for all types of evidence, we show that it is possible to improve both quality and coverage by combining the datasets. To facilitate use and visualization of our work, we have developed the TISSUES resource ( http://tissues.jensenlab.org ), which makes all the scored and integrated data available through a single user-friendly web interface.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1072/', ['Computational Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Cellular Network Biology Group, NNF Center for Protein Research, K\xf8benhavn Universitet', u'Digital Productivity, CSIRO', u'Ferring Pharmaceuticals', u'Computational informatics, CSIRO', u'Garvan Institute of Medical Research', u'Cellular Network Biology Group, NNF Center for Protein Research, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Awake fMRI reveals a specialized region in dog temporal cortex for face processing', ['Daniel D Dilks', 'Peter Cook', 'Samuel K Weiller', 'Helen P Berns', 'Mark H Spivak', 'Gregory Berns'], u'2015-05-14', u'Recent behavioral evidence suggests that dogs, like humans and monkeys, are capable of visual face recognition. But do dogs also exhibit specialized cortical face regions similar to humans and monkeys? Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) in six dogs trained to remain motionless during scanning without restraint or sedation, we found a region in the canine temporal lobe that responded significantly more to movies of human faces than to movies of everyday objects. Next, using a new stimulus set to investigate face selectivity in this predefined candidate dog face area, we found that this region responded similarly to images of human faces and dog faces, yet significantly more to both human and dog faces than to images of objects. Such face selectivity was not found in dog primary visual cortex. Taken together, these findings: 1) provide the first evidence for a face-selective region in the temporal cortex of dogs, which cannot be explained by simple low-level visual feature extraction; 2) reveal that neural machinery dedicated to face processing is not unique to primates; and 3) may help explain dogs\u2019 exquisite sensitivity to human social cues.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1071/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Psychology, Emory University', u'Comprehensive Pet Therapy']]
[u'Fundamental motion outcomes - Steps / Strides', ['Reto W. Kressig'], u'2015-05-13', u'We describe the close relationship between stride, cadence and velocity, as fundamental motion outcomes, in particular for the elderly. Stride (Length, Time, CoV) is a meaningful mobility outcome for clinical intervention trials. Stride variability while motor-cognitive dual-tasking is a sensitive mobility outcome for fall risk and cognitive disorders (e.g. Alzheimer\u2019s disease) at an early stage. Salsa proved to be a safe and feasible exercise programme for older adults accompanied with a high adherence rate', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1070/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Geriatrics', 'Kinesiology'], [u'Department of University Medicine of Aging, Felix Platter-Hospital', u'Faculty of Medicine, University of Basel']]
[u'Genetic architecture of pollination syndrome transition between hummingbird-specialist and generalist species in the genus Rhytidophyllum (Gesneriaceae)', ['Hermine Alexandre', 'Justine Vrignaud', 'Brigitte Mangin', 'Simon Joly'], u'2015-05-13', u'Adaptation to pollinators is a key factor of diversification in angiosperms. The Caribbean sister genera Rhytidophyllum and Gesneria present an important diversification of floral characters. Most of their species can be divided in two major pollination syndromes. Large-open flowers with pale colours and great amount of nectar represent the generalist syndrome, while the hummingbird-specialist syndrome corresponds to red tubular flowers with a less important nectar volume. Repeated convergent evolution toward the generalist syndrome in this group suggests that such transitions rely on few genes of moderate to large effect. To test this hypothesis, we built a linkage map and performed a QTL detection for divergent pollination syndrome traits by crossing one specimen of the generalist species Rhytidophyllum auriculatum with one specimen of the hummingbird pollinated R. rupincola. Using geometric morphometrics and univariate traits measurements, we found that floral shape among the second-generation hybrids is correlated with morphological variation observed between generalist and hummingbird-specialist species at the genus level. The QTL analysis showed that colour and nectar volume variation between syndromes involve each one major QTL while floral shape has a more complex genetic basis and rely on few genes of moderate effect. Finally we did not detect any genetic linkage between the QTLs underlying those traits. This genetic independence of traits could have facilitated evolution toward optimal syndromes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/861/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Institut de Recherche en Biologie V\xe9g\xe9tale, Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al', u'Laboratoire des Interactions Plantes-Microorganismes (LIPM), INRA UMR441, CNRS UMR2594']]
[u'A consensual Diving-PAM protocol to monitor Posidonia oceanica photosynthesis', ['Sylvie Gobert', 'Gilles Lepoint', 'Joao Silva', 'Rui Santos', 'Pierre Lejeune', 'Patrick Dujardin', 'Bruno Delvaux', 'Jean-Thomas Cornelis', 'Jonathan Richir'], u'2015-05-12', u'The seagrass Posidonia oceanica is widely recognized as an effective bioindicator of the health status of Mediterranean coastal waters. Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements, in particular through the Pulse Amplitude Modulated (PAM) fluorometry method, are performed to study aquatic plant ecology and vitality and to assess their responses to diverse stressful factors. However, the current understanding of P. oceanica photosynthetic responses to environmental stresses does only allow scientists to use the PAM-method as a complementary tool to other more-robust monitoring techniques. Consequently, a more in-depth knowledge of the natural causes of variability of P. oceanica photosynthetic responses are a prerequisite to any surveys relying on that time and cost-effective method. In the framework of the STARECAPMED project, this work aimed to determine the influence of several environmental (depth, daytime, season) and plant-specific characteristics (leaf age, leaf part analyzed, epiphytic coverage) on the photosynthetic responses (Y, ETR, RLC) of P. oceanica. Water temperature, irradiance and several biochemical parameters of the seagrass (chl.a, chl.b, C, N, P, micronutrients such as Fe, Cu) were measured as well. The field survey was performed in a pristine meadow in the Calvi Bay, Corsica. Environmental and plant-physiological characteristics deeply influenced P. oceanica photosynthetic responses. As an example, ETR decreased with depth, contrary to Y that mostly increased. ETR was lower in the basal part of leaf blade, and the epiphytic coverage of leaf tips slightly increased their ETR compared to leaf tips cleaned of epiphytes. Depth and leaf part-related variations in RLC were also observed. Because of this natural variability, it appears essential to develop a consensual protocol of chlorophyll fluorescence measurements to publish reliable and comparable results between studies. We therefore notably suggest to perform measurements close to midday, when photosynthetic responses are the highest; at 10-15 m depth in order to avoid, among others, low depth light irradiance variability; on the middle part of the 3rd-4th external leaf, well developed, highly photosynthetic, and little epiphyted. Finally, because P. oceanica fluorescence was correlated with N, P and chl.b leaf contents, the PAM-method could afterwards be used as bioindicator technique, according to the protocol proposed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1067/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Laboratory of Oceanology, MARE Centre, University of Liege, Sart Tilman', u'Marine Plant Ecology Research Group, Center of Marine Sciences (CCMar), University of Algarve', u'Marine and Oceanographic Research Station STARESO', u'Unit of Plant Biology, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liege', u'Earth and Life Institute, Environmental Sciences, Catholic University of Louvain-la-Neuve', u'Biosystem Engineering Department, Gembloux Agro-Bio Tech, University of Liege']]
[u'Trace element contamination severity of coastal waters: A first bioassessment at the scale of the whole Mediterranean Sea', ['Jonathan Richir', 'Maylis Salivas-Decaux', 'Celine Lafabrie', 'Cecilia Lopez y Royo', 'Pierre Lejeune', 'Gerard Pergent', 'Christine Pergent-Martini', 'Sylvie Gobert'], u'2015-05-12', u'Human activities generate large volumes of waste that supply marine coastal environments in pathogens, organic matter, nutrients and toxicants. Among the wide range of toxicants are trace elements. Since the latter are toxic for aquatic organisms from threshold levels and as they are therefore likely to cause multiple damage to the population, the community and the ecosystem levels, their environmental occurrence has to be accurately monitored in order to guarantee appropriate environmental management of coastal zones and to preserve marine coastal ecosystems and the goods and services they provide. In the framework of the STARECAPMED project, the present study aimed to monitor, for the first time, the coastal contamination of the entire Mediterranean by As, Ag, Cd, Cu, Hg, Ni and Pb, using Posidonia oceanica as bioindicator species. But sustainable coastal management also requires the development of appropriate contamination classification systems intended, among other purposes, for environmental managers and policy makers. The combined utilization of several complementary monitoring tools, i.e. water quality scale, pollution index (TEPI and TESVI) and spatial analysis (PCA, CA, correlation analysis and GIS mapping) successfully led to the development of an operational classification system of this kind. In particular, the mapping of the trace element contamination according to a new proposed 5-level water quality scale using the quantile method precisely outlined the contamination severity along Mediterranean coasts and facilitated interregional comparisons. The reliability of the use of P. oceanica as bioindicator species was further again demonstrated through several global, regional and local detailed case studies. In conclusion, holistic approaches such as developed in the present study should be privileged to accurately monitor the contamination rate of coastal waters and to transfer relevant information on this composite problem to environmental managers and policy makers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1066/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Marine and Oceanographic Research Station STARESO', u'Laboratory of Oceanology, MARE Centre, University of Liege, Sart Tilman', u'ACCOBAMS, Terrasses de Fontvieille', u'FRES 3041, EqEL, University of Corsica', u'UMR 241 EIO, University of French Polynesia']]
[u'Assessment of long term interaction between the endemic seagrass  P. oceanica  and the exotic green alga  C. cylindracea  in the South Eastern coast of Spain (Murcia Region)', ['Jaime Bernardeau-Esteller', 'Rocio Garcia-Munoz', 'Lazaro Marin-Guirao', 'Jose Miguel Sandoval-Gil', 'Ruiz Juan Fernandez'], u'2015-05-12', u'The green alga  Caulerpa cylindracea  has rapidly spread throughout the Western Mediterranean during the last 20 years. Compared with other native benthic communities,  Posidonia oceanica  meadows seems to be highly resistant to the colonization by the alga. Nonetheless, it is suggested that in the long-term  C. cylindracea  could affect the seagrass altering its vitality, structure and functions, however little is known about the interactive effects between these two structuring species. To this end, the abundance of both macrophytes was quantified and monitored in invaded and non-invaded localities of the South Eastern coast of Spain (Murcia Region) over an 8-year period (2007-2014). Results indicate that no differences were highlighted between invaded and no invaded meadows and all the monitored meadows showed stable or progressive trends in shoot density, meadow cover and net population growth. Regardless of the depth, in all of the invaded localities  C. cylindracea  biomass present inside the seagrass leaf canopy was about 10 to 50\u2013fold lower than that measured just outside the leaf canopy. In summary, our results do not support the existence of a long-term competitive interaction between the invasive alga and the native seagrass, at least in the studied meadows and at the meadow level.  C. cylindracea  forms huge biomass gradients associated to the seagrass meadow edges that are stable with time, which suggests the existence of highly limiting conditions for algal growth and survival under the  P. oceanica  leaf canopy. Future research on such limiting factors could help us to understand the invasive capacity of the alga and the factors involved in the resistance of native habitats to bioinvasions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1065/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Seagrass Ecology Group, Oceanographic Centre of Murcia, Spanish Institute of Oceanography']]
[u'Seagrasses or caged mussels to bioassess the contamination rate of Mediterranean coastal waters? That is the question', ['Jonathan Richir', 'Francois Galgani', 'Jose Benedicto', 'Bruno Andral', 'Pierre Lejeune', 'Maylis Salivas-Decaux', 'Celine Lafabrie', 'Cecilia Lopez y Royo', 'Gerard Pergent', 'Christine Pergent-Martini', 'Sylvie Gobert'], u'2015-05-12', u'Biological indicators have the capacity to integrate the temporal changes of contaminants, concentrations or fluxes over various time-scales, and are thus considered as interesting tools for water quality biomonitoring. Since the mid-70ies, French programs have developed water monitoring approaches based on the use of bivalve molluscs; and recently the natural background and the extent of water contamination were bioassessed at the scale of the whole western Mediterranean. But even if bivalve molluscs are viewed as reliable bioindicators, their use is not always made easy as a result of their absence in numerous coastal regions that force their transplantation (cages) during several months before their sampling and analysis. This weakness led several scientists to evaluate the bioindicator abilities of other marine organisms. Seagrasses, whose ability to bioaccumulate contaminants proportionally to environmental contamination levels has been clearly demonstrated, have thus been proposed as an appropriate alternative tool for coastal water quality assessment. Very little studies have however so far considered the combined utilization of these two groups of bioindicator organisms, i.e. caged bivalve molluscs and seagrasses. In the framework of the STARECAPMED project, we therefore compared and discussed the bioaccumulation of trace elements in the Neptune grass Posidonia oceanica and in caged Mediterranean mussels Mytilus galloprovincialis. The sampling was performed at the scale of the western Mediterranean. The two species told two contamination stories which, although sometimes different, showed to be complementary. P. oceanica and M. galloprovincialis bioaccumulated dissolved trace elements from the water column and thus provided information regarding trace element contamination severity integrated over several days to a few months. Seagrasses, strongly rooted in the sediments, reflected the long-term exposure to trace elements since sediments offer a degree of time integration over several years to decades. Caged mussels, as filter feeder artificially maintained in the water column, bioaccumulated trace elements from their particulate phase, and therefore gave valuable information regarding continental-terrigenous inputs to coastal waters. In conclusion, seagrasses and mussels should neither supplant, nor substitute, but rather complement each other in order to provide the full time- and space-integrated coastal contamination story of the Mediterranean.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1064/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Station de Recherches Sous-marines et Oceanographiques (STARESO)', u'Laboratory of Oceanology, MARE Centre, University of Liege, Sart Tilman', u'Laboratoire Environment Resource Provence Azur Corse, IFREMER', u'Centro Oceanografico de Murcia, Instituto Espanol de Oceanografia (IEO)', u'Laboratoire Environment Resource Provence Azur Corse, IFREMER', u'ACCOBAMS, Terrasses de Fontvieille', u'FRES 3041, Equipe Ecosyst\xe8mes Littoraux (EqEL), Faculty of Sciences, University of Corsica', u'UMR 241 EIO, University of French Polynesia']]
[u'Distribution and abundance of  Cymodocea nodosa  meadows and  Pinna nobilis  populations in the Mar Menor coastal lagoon (Murcia, South East of Spain)', ['Maria Dolores Belando', 'Rocio Garcia-Munoz', 'Aranzazu Ramos', 'Ignacio Franco', 'Jaime Bernardeau-Esteller', 'Pedro Garcia', 'Juan Manuel Ruiz'], u'2015-05-12', u'The Mar Menor (135 km2 ) is one of the most important hypersaline coastal lagoons in the Western Mediterranean Sea, its bottoms were originally colonized by monospecific meadows of the seagrass  Cymodocea nodosa. However, since the 1970\u2019s, drastic hydrographic changes caused by various human activities has seen the expansion of a number of species common in the adjacent Mediterranean waters, of which development had been limited up to now due to high salinities and temperatures. Among these species, the seaweed  Caulerpa prolifera  and the endangered fan mussel  Pinna nobilis  are those experiencing a broader spread in the lagoon and with a great potential to interact through both bottom-up and top-down processes have, as a result of which they have become key species of the lagoon ecosystem. In fact, previous maps of benthic vegetation suggest a huge decline of seagrass populations as  C. prolifera  has expanded. Moreover, both the algae and the filter feeder could play a key role in the control of planktonic communities, which development in the lagoon waters could have been accelerated in the last decades due to the great enhancement of eutrophication and pollution processes. Therefore, quantification of benthic vegetation communities, in particular  C. nodosa  meadows, and  P. nobilis  populations are crucial for the understanding of the Mar Menor ecosystem, but overall for the management of human activities and the implementation of conservation actions given its current protection status and the urgent need to obey European Directives (Habitats, Water Framework and Marine Strategy). In this context, precise maps of the distribution and abundance of benthic vegetation and  P. nobilis  in the Mar Menor was obtained during the spring-summer of 2014 by means of direct measurements (macrophytes cover, density and biomass and  P. nobilis  density) performed on 57 sampling points and qualitative observations (presence/absence) performed on 189 additional points as well as on 155.5 km of lineal transects using a trawled videocamera. Data obtained suggests that seagrass abundance in the lagoon is much higher than that reported in some previous studies and does not support the hypothesis of a long-term decline.  P. nobilis  has spread over a surface area 56.8% of the lagoon seafloor with a mean density of 2.17 ind.\xb7100 m-2 and maximum values (up to 22.5 ind.\xb7100 m-2) located in the northern part of the lagoon under the maximum influence of the Mediterranean waters.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1063/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Asociaci\xf3n de Naturalistas del Sureste (ANSE)', u'Seagrass Ecology Group, Oceanographic Centre of Murcia, Spanish Institute of Oceanography']]
[u'Seagrass meadows of the Moroccan Mediterranean coast: state of research and knowledge', ['Hocein Bazairi'], u'2015-05-12', u'Seagrass meadows are highly productive and key ecosystems that undergo widespread loss due to \u2018climate-related\u2019 and human-mediated stressors as well as natural causes. Therefore, basic information about the distribution, abundance, and characteristics of seagrass meadows and their environment is critical for managers to assess and monitor the resource. Such knowledge is lacking for Morocco and there is a clear need to acquire baseline data for monitoring and protecting these important habitats. The present review summarizes the state of the research and the knowledge on seagrass meadows of the Mediterranean coast of Morocco. Data were assessed using a compilation of historical data compared to recent confirmed observation and field surveys conducted within the framework of several projects (MedMPAnet, Medkeyhabitats, etc.). Of the five species of strictly marine Magnoliophyta found in the Mediterranean Sea, four are also currently identified along the Mediterranean coast of Morocco (Posidonia oceanica, Cymodocea nodosa, Zostera marina and Zostera noltii); the Lessepsian immigrant Halophila stipulacea has not been recorded yet. Apart from C. nodosa, that showed large distribution, the other species remain spatially localized and their distribution has been declining since they have disappeared from many localities. This is the case of Zostera marina that has probably disappeared from many localities (e.g. Cap des Trois Fourches, Marchica lagoon). However, some previous citations, such as the presence of Posidonia oceanica in the Marchica lagoon, seem to be a systematic confusion. Moreover, quantitative data on the characteristics of seagrass meadows are very scarce and many areas of knowledge gaps were identified along the Mediterranean coast of Morocco. An in-depth study of seagrass meadows occurring in Morocco is strongly required and would substantially increase the knowledge on such habitats and help in their conservation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1062/', ['Marine Biology'], [u'Faculty of Sciences, Mohammed V University']]
[u'Assessing the importance of genetic and ecological factors for the occurrence of patchy flowering in  Posidonia oceanica', ['Marlene Jahnke', 'Jordi F Pages', 'Teresa Alcoverro', 'Paul S Lavery', 'Kathryn M McMahon', 'Gabriele Procaccini'], u'2015-05-12', u'The occurrence of sexual reproduction and flowering synchronization of angiosperms has been widely studied and may be induced by external or internal cues. Although factors such as predator satiation and pollination efficiency may explain why synchronization can increase individual fitness, the actual mechanisms of synchronization are obscure for the majority of plant species. In this study we aimed to assess the importance of ecological and genetic factors in shaping flowering heterogeneity of  Posidonia oceanica  at the small spatial scale (metres), where shoots and patches were subjected to similar levels of the major potential external drivers such as temperature and light availability. We assessed four external ecological factors (vegetative tissue production, leaf nitrogen and carbon content and herbivory) and three genetic factors (heterozygosity, relatedness and clonality). We sampled six patches with contrasting flower abundances at three different localities and analysed whether spatial heterogeneity in the abundance of flowers was due to (1) clone identity and clone synchronization, (2) variation in nutrient availability per individual, potentially caused by spatial heterogeneity in herbivory rates (or nutrient re-location  via  clonal integration) or (3) kin selection and sibling synchronization. Moreover, we also investigated if levels of genetic diversity, specifically observed heterozygosity as a proxy for individual fitness, differ between flowering patches and patches with low flower abundance. We show that genetic factors play a major role: Both internal relatedness and heterozygosity have a significant positive interaction with the abundance of flowers. Moreover, vegetative tissue production and the number of clones per patch were negatively correlated with the number of flowers, although at a low level of significance. Sharing of clones within localities was almost exclusively among patches with high flower abundance and patches with low flower abundance, respectively. Our results support the kin selection hypothesis and indirectly the resource-budget hypothesis, as well as an interaction between genetic factors and environmental factors as cause for the observed heterogeneous flowering patterns. Overall, the results shed new light onto the mechanisms explaining flowering synchronization in  P. oceanica.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1061/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Integrative Marine Ecology, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'Centre d\u2019Estudis Avan\xe7ats de Blanes (CEAB-CSIC)', u'Nature Conservation Foundation', u'School of Natural Sciences, Edith Cowan University']]
[u'Antioxidant and stress-related genes in the seagrass Posidonia oceanica in the vicinity of natural CO2 vents at different nutrient conditions', ['Chiara Lauritano', 'Fabio Bulleri', 'Chiara Ravaglioli', 'Laura Tamburello', 'Maria Cristina Buia', 'Gabriele Procaccini'], u'2015-05-12', u'Studies on stress genes are fundamental to understand how marine organisms maintain or re-estabilish a normal metabolism in face of physical or chemical disturbances. Aquatic organisms are in fact constantly exposed to environmental stimuli and natural and/or dissolved anthropogenic variables/compounds, including both physical (e.g. cold, heat, salinity and pH) and chemical (e.g. heavy metals, hydrocarbons and other pollutants) stressors. Human activities have intensified in coastal area, increasing the number of stressors that act simultaneously over natural systems (e.g. ocean acidification and eutrophication). In this study, Reverse Transcription-Quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-qPCR) was used to characterize metabolic processes at the cellular level in response to natural CO2-enrichment and artificial nutrient-enrichment in proximity of a volcanic vent located in the Ischia island (Gulf of Naples, Tyrrhenian Sea). We evaluated the differential expression of selected stress genes in the seagrass Posidonia oceanica collected in a control site and in the vicinity of the CO2 vents. In each location, plants experienced three different nutrient concentrations: natural (without adding any nutrient), low- and high- enrichments. Results show that nutrient addition mainly induced an over-expression of genes codifying for antioxidant proteins, in sites not influenced by CO2-enrichment. In particular, we observed an increase in the activity of glutathione synthase, responsible of the synthesis of the antioxidant protein glutathione. In addition, we also observed the up-regulation of glutathione peroxidase, catalase, ascorbate reductase and cythocrome P450. When analysing the effects of nutrients in the acidified site, trends in expression changes were similar, but expression levels were notably lower. Interestingly, the over-expression of the above mentioned genes was always higher at low nutrient exposure, while other antioxidant enzymes (i.e. glutathione S-transferase and glutathione reductase) were more activated in high nutrient conditions. The difference in response between acidified and control site and in different nutrient conditions seems to derive from the combined affect of multiple stressors, in a way that still remains obscure. Effects of different stressors should be disentangled in order to identify stress-specific genes as early indicators of stressful conditions at sea and during laboratory experiments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1060/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Integrative Marine Ecology (IME), Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'Dipartimento di Biologia, Universit\xe0 di Pisa, CONISMA']]
[u'Differential tolerance and resilience of Mediterranean seagrasses to short-term heat stress', ['Lazaro Marin-Guirao', 'Emanuela Dattolo', 'Juan Manuel Ruiz', 'Gabriele Procaccini'], u'2015-05-12', u'The aim of the present study was to determine tolerance to ocean warming of the two main Mediterranean seagrass species Posidonia oceanica and Cymodocea nodosa. To this end, photophysiological and transcriptomic responses of shallow (5m) and deep (25m) plants were studied during a 5-d exposure to heat (32\xb0C) and after a 5-d recovery to ambient temperature (24\xb0C). Observed responses evidenced interspecific differences in heat tolerance in accordance with the biological attributes and ecological strategies of the species, but also intraspecific differences in relation to the depth origin of plants. The smaller and fast-growing species C. nodosa, was able to maintain unaltered leaf carbon budget along heat exposure, thanks to proportionally similar increments in photosynthesis and respiration. Along with this, the lack of alterations at the photochemical and photoprotective levels point to a high tolerance of the species to heat stress. Contrarily, the higher increment in respiration than in photosynthesis showed by the long-lived and slow-growing P. oceanica provoked leaf carbon imbalance after 24h of heat exposure, evidencing its higher sensitivity to heat. Interestingly, shallow plants displayed a higher acclimation capacity and after 5d of exposure their photosynthetic and respiratory rates converged to control conditions, whereas deep plants still evidenced symptoms of heat stress. The progressive photochemical efficiency reduction observed in deep plants, reinforced the idea that deeps plants are less able to tolerate heat. In any case, plants from both depths were able to recover their physiological status after a recovery period, indicating that they did not suffer lethal injury under the experimental conditions here tested. An analysis of gene expression (both RT-qPCR and RNA-seq) is ongoing, to dig into the molecular and physiological mechanisms involved in seagrass tolerance to heat stress. In conclusion, the study suggests that warming caused by human-induced climate change will likely have significant negative effects mainly on P. oceanica populations. The sensibility of the species to heat will finally depend on the local environmental conditions where plants grow (e.g. different depths or latitudes), a fact that must be taken in to account for the establishment of suitable management and conservation strategies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1059/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Integrative Marine Ecology, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'Seagrass Ecology Group, Spanish Institute of Oceanography']]
[u'Circadian fluctuation of gene expression along a bathymetric cline in the marine angiosperm Posidonia oceanica', ['Emanuela Dattolo', 'Chiara Lauritano', 'Miriam Ruocco', 'Gabriele Procaccini'], u'2015-05-12', u'Plants developed several mechanisms to sense light and to cope with its natural diel and seasonal fluctuation. Many species use an endogenous clock to predict signals from the environment and to anticipate circadian light change. Changes in circadian clock genes allow plants to synchronize their physiology with local light and temperature conditions and to adapt to changes in light regimes occurring across environmental gradient (e.g. across latitudes). Understanding the genetic and physiological basis of plants response to the seasonal and daily variation in environmental conditions, could allow to predict the effects on plant physiology of environmental perturbations that could happen in the future, due to anthropogenic pressure and climatic changes. Most of the recently identified genes, associated with endogenous clock in plants, are themselves circadian regulated, with expression peaks phased to occur at a specific time of the day. Here we explore daily variations in the expression of clock genes in the marine angiosperm Posidonia oceanica along its bathymetric distribution, where plants are exposed to a natural cline of light and temperature. To do that, we measured genes expression (by RT-qPCR) of photoreceptors and components of the plant clock at two target depths (5 and 25 meter depth) and at six time points during the day. Sampling was performed in a continuous meadow located in the Bay of Calvi, Corsica (thanks to the ESF Cost Action 0906). We discuss the effects of the influence of the distinct light environments on the peak expression occurring at a specific time of the day between the two depths. Further, we discuss the potential adaptive relevance of these results on P. oceanica fitness and survival.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1058/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Integrative Marine Ecology (IME), Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'Center of Marine Sciences (CCMAR), University of Algarve']]
[u'Cymodocea nodosa response to simulated CO2-driven ocean acidification: a first insight from global transcriptome profiling', ['Miriam Ruocco', 'Procaccini Gabriele', 'Francesco Musacchia', 'Remo Sanges', 'Irene Olive', 'Monya M Costa', 'Isabel Barrote', 'Rui Santos', 'Joao Silva'], u'2015-05-12', u'Global climate changes are imposing multiple pressures to marine organisms. The rising atmospheric CO2 concentration is causing substantial changes in ocean physics, chemistry and biology. At least three synergic environmental stressors have been recognized as primary driven by CO2 emissions: ocean warming, oxygen loss and ocean acidification. The effects of CO2-driven ocean acidification on seagrass metabolism remain largely understudied. A few studies have been conducted near submarine volcanic vents, which mimic the future ocean acidification scenarios, allowing researchers to investigate the performance of marine organisms under long-term exposure to high-CO2 levels. Apart from these, some mesocosm-based experiments have investigated growth and physiological responses to high CO2. For this work, we built an outdoor mesocosm facility at the Centre of Marine Sciences\u2019 field station in Algarve, Portugal, to experimentally manipulate CO2 levels and investigate the effects of high-CO2/low pH on seagrass metabolism and underlying molecular mechanisms. Cymodocea nodosa plants were collected in Cadiz Bay at the end of January 2014 and transported to the mesocosm facility. After a one week acclimation period, C. nodosa were either kept under normal (400 ppm) or elevated (1200 ppm) CO2 concentration for 12 days. Water physico-chemical parameters, irradiance, and chlorophyll-fluorescence-derived photosynthetic parameters were monitored on a daily basis. Here we present, for the first time in this species, results obtained using Illumina RNAseq technology and de-novo transcriptome assembly. Using C. nodosa RNAs extracted at the beginning and the end of the experiment, we assembled more than 70 thousands unique transcripts and were able to annotate more than 90% of them using the Annocript pipeline. Differential expression analysis revealed about 500 transcripts significantly differentially regulated between plants kept under control and high-CO2 conditions. Pathways showing largest changes in gene expression included isoprenoid and amino-acid biosynthesis, porphyrin-containing compound metabolism, amine and polyamine biosynthesis, lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. Transcriptome sequencing also significantly increases the molecular resources available for C. nodosa, almost completely absent before this study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1057/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Center of Marine Sciences (CCMAR), University of Algarve', u'Department of Biology and Evolution of Marine Organims, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn']]
[u'Posidonia oceanica molecular adaptation to the light environment', ['Gabriele Procaccini', 'Emanuela Dattolo', 'Chiara Lauritano', 'Miriam Ruocco', 'Lazaro Marin-Guirao'], u'2015-05-12', u'Seagrass meadows are among the most productive ecosystems, with Posidonia oceanica being the most important species along the Mediterranean coastline. This species forms extensive mono-specific meadows that are extremely sensitive to medium-high levels of disturbance and are being threatened by fast environmental changes caused by global warming and increasing human activities. The impact can either reflect in higher turbidity along the water column and in increased UV radiation, making the light availability one of the most important factors affecting P. oceanica distribution. Plants developed mechanisms of adaptations at multiple levels to track and cope with fluctuations and changes in the light environment. At molecular level, the modulation of gene expression in response to environmental changes allows plants to optimize the utilization of light energy for growth and to prevent damages due to its excess. To detect the relevant molecular adaptation strategies evolved by P. oceanica and to assess the plasticity showed in the acclimation under different light regimes, we are employing studies both in natural and controlled conditions. Here, we describe the differences in photo acclimation of plants living along the bathymetric cline observed in field and in a common garden experiment in mesocosms, after the exposition to contrasting light regimes. Using a transcriptional approach (both RT -qPCR and RNA-seq) coupled with a physiological one, we are also testing potential divergences existing among populations and individuals related to light sensitivity. These data should supply new insights for the management of seagrasses ecosystems, for the development of most successful transplantation strategies and ultimately for conservation of biodiversity of these precious ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1056/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'Integrative Marine Ecology Section, Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'Centre of Marine Sciences (CCMar), University of Algarve']]
[u'Pinna nobilis mapping in Posidonia oceanica meadows by video-photographic techniques in the Gulf of Oristano, Sardinia', ['Sante Francesco Rende', 'Marina Penna', 'Benedetta Trabucco', 'Tiziano Bacci', 'Stefania Coppa', 'Andrea De Lucia', 'Andrea Camedda', 'Giorgio Massaro', 'Stefano Marra', 'Angelo Perilli', 'Anna Maria Cicero'], u'2015-05-12', u'Pinna nobilis spatial distribution have been analysed trough a video - photographic approach in a Posidonia oceanica meadow in the Gulf of Oristano (Sardinia, Italy). In situ visual censuses and 2D/3D georeferenced vertical photographic survey were conducted by SCUBA diving in different sampling transect. The experimental procedure was carried out in the summer of 2014. Data have been processed using the photogrammetric techniques, in particular, in this work we presented the procedure and processing techniques to realize the orthographic planar micro cartography mosaics from photo sequences. Results of this study, although preliminary, showed the time-cost effectiveness of this approach to map the benthic species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1055/', ['Marine Biology'], [u'Department of  Marine Environmental Quality Assessment, ISPRA  - Italian National Institute for Environmental Protection and Research', u'IAMC - CNR, Institute for Coastal Marine Environment - National Research Council']]
[u'Solid biofuel potential of Acacia mangium leaves', ['Bemgba Bevan Nyakuma'], u'2015-05-12', u'Acacia mangium is a fast growing evergreen tree species with average height 30 m, native to the humid tropical forests of Australia, Indonesia and Papua New Guinea. In Malaysia, A. mangium is widely propagated for erosion control, fire break and afforestation programs especially in area of degraded forests resulting from logging and shifting agriculture. It is a valuable of tree products namely; timber, pulp, and tannins. The high rate of (LLA) leaf litter accumulation (8,940 kg/ha/yr) serves provides a rich source of crude protein for livestock. However, the high LLA rate results in the deposition of large quantities of lignocellulosic waste materials on the forest floors creating waste disposal management problems. This has been attributed to the increase in forest fires, air pollution and greenhouse gas (GHGs) emissions. Therefore novel techniques are urgently required to manage A. mangium leaf litter (AML2). This is study aimed at characterizing the solid biofuel properties of AML2 as a feedstock for biomass energy conversion systems by determining its calorific value, proximate and ultimate analysis as well as its thermal decomposition behaviour using a thermogravimetric (TG) analysis. The results indicate that the elemental content of C ( > 50 %), H ( > 5 %), O ( > 40 %), N ( < 5 %), S ( < 5 %); proximate analysis was M (< 10 %), VM (> 60 %), FC (< 20 %) and A (< 5 %). The calorific value of AML2 is 21.11 MJ/kg which is higher than A. mangium wood (20.58 MJ/kg). In addition, AML2 completely decomposed under pyrolysis conditions from 30 - 800 \xb0C at 5 \xb0C/min. Overall, AML2 possesses outstanding solid biofuel properties which can be exploited for the production of clean energy fuels for the future.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1054/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Institute of Hydrogen Energy, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia']]
[u'Spatial micro-distribution of shoots in Posidonia oceanica (L.) Delile meadows', ['Tiziano Bacci', 'Sante Francesco Rende', 'Domenico Rocca', 'Michele Scardi'], u'2015-05-11', u'Posidonia oceanica  meadows contain huge numbers of shoots and their dynamics are strictly related to spatial distribution patterns of those shoots. In order to investigate the structure of  P. oceanica  meadows at very small spatial scale (i.e. in the 1 cm 2 -1 m 2 range), patterns in shoot distribution were analyzed. Spatial distribution of shoots was recorded by cutting all the leaves and by digitizing shoot location from images of 10 square frames (1 m 2 ), sampled in seemingly uniformly dense meadows at two sites in Southern Italy. Spatial point patterns have been explored testing the sensitivity and robustness through different spatial indices, based on i) nearest neighbour analysis, ii) quadrat counts analysis, iii) fractal dimension. Clark & Evans nearest neighbour distance index has been proved to be the most suitable for aim of the work and it has been selected for the further analysis. Data analysis of the 10 square frames (1 m 2 ) highlighted regular spatial point patterns (R>1; p<0.0001) in most cases (8 frames), while aggregated (R<1; p<0.01) and random (R=1) spatial point patterns were rare. In addition, mean value of nearest neighbour distance of shoots in each square frame analyzed has been shown to be always close to 2 cm (min: 1.73 cm; max: 2.21 cm). The potential implications of this type of data set were highlighted. Both nearest neighbour distance of shoots and spatial point pattern typology (aggregated, random or regular) could provide useful and integrative information for the study of  P. oceanica  macrostructure (e.g. implementation of shoot growth models, development of new descriptors). The raw data, provided by the authors as supplementary material, are currently the first and the only information available about shoot spatial micro-distribution. In this regard, although our data set cannot represent the whole spectrum of variability in  P. oceanica  meadows, it certainly shed some light on the small scale patterns of  P. oceanica  meadows and it prompts us many questions, some of which are still unanswered.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1053/', ['Marine Biology'], [u'Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA)', u'Marine Protected Area \u201cCapo Rizzuto\u201d', u'Department of Biology, University of Rome \u201cTor Vergata\u201d']]
[u'The transplanting of Posidonia oceanica: best practices for Italy', ['Tiziano Bacci', 'Sante Francesco Rende', 'Barbara La Porta', 'Daniela Paganelli'], u'2015-05-11', u'In the last decades Posidonia oceanica meadows have been undergoing a strong regression phenomena mainly due to a rapid and high overexploitation of coastal zones (e.g. urban encroachment, waste dumping), that significantly altered their natural characteristics and heavily affected marine ecosystems in the whole Mediterranean Basin. As P. oceanica meadows are protected as priority habitat according to Habitat Directive 1992/43/CEE and Barcelona Convention (16.02.1976) and play an important role within some European Directives (WFD: 2000/60/EC and MSFD: 2008/56/EC) each type of human pressure that potentially produces impacts or changes on Posidonia meadows must be deeply assessed to avoid any negative effect on this sensitive habitat. In this contest, transplant of P. oceanica plants may be necessary to reduce meadow regression or to facilitate meadow recovery, reducing the sacrifice of those portions of meadows destroyed by infrastructural works. The Italian National Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA) published the technical volume \u201cPreservation and management of coastal-marine ecosystems: The transplanting of Posidonia oceanica" (in Italian language) with the aim to provide a useful tool for operators and Public Administrators involved in this topic at different levels. The manual contains all available information on transplant of P. oceanica derived from a critical analysis of the existing technical and scientific literature and reports, the legal aspects of this issue as well as the main biological characteristics of P. oceanica meadows. Moreover specific details about different transplant techniques and their results over time in some case studies in Italy, have been presented in specific datasheets enclosed to the manual.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1052/', ['Marine Biology'], [u'Institute for Environmental Protection and Research (ISPRA)']]
[u'Transplantation of the Mediterranean seagrass Posidonia oceanica through naturalistic engineering techniques: value, weakness and further improvements', ['Stefano Acunto', 'Luigi Piazzi', 'Francesco L. Cinelli', 'Anna Maria De Biasi', 'Lorenzo Pacciardi', 'Simonetta Ceraudo', 'Giorgio Fersini'], u'2015-05-11', u'Transplantation of seagrasses is considered a useful method to favour the recovery of degraded meadows. Hence, many projects have been carried out worldwide and a manifold of techniques have been applied. However, the choice of transplantation procedures remains a main problem to be assessed. In order to optimize efforts and to minimize risks of plants loss, the applied methodologies should take into account typology of hosting substratum, hydrodynamic conditions, depth and seagrass species. Due to their fundamental ecological role in the Mediterranean coastal system, many restoration projects aiming to preserve Posidonia oceanica meadows took place in the last decades. Several transplantation techniques have produced different results. In fact the same transplanting methodology may originate diverse results under different environmental conditions. Recently, naturalistic engineering techniques developed on land, have been used for transplantations of P. oceanica. Pilot projects concerning small surfaces were carried out between 2006 and 2010. More recently, a large-scale program (0.1 km2) was realized in 2012 at Civitavecchia (Roma, Thyrrenian Sea). The applied technique consists basically of mattresses filled with sand coupled with a net covering able to hold steady in situ the plant rhizomes. These structures have been variously modified in time to be adapted to the different type of substratum and various hydrodynamic conditions of the transplanting sites. Following the results of these transplantation experiences, we analyzed pros and cons of the techniques in order to improve the methodology. Firstly, these techniques may be considered suitable to large-scale projects allowing to minimize transplantation times. Secondly, the rhizomes may be successfully fixed to the structures; the majority of the transplanted shoots was not damaged showing a very good vegetative vitality with the production of new rhizomes, leaves and roots few months after transplanting. Finally, this procedure is flexible, as the basic technique can be modified and tailored to the various environmental conditions of the different receiving site. However, the results obtained in different areas are highly heterogeneous suggesting that a careful selection of the hosting site is a focal point. To this aim, a pilot study before the beginning of large-scale project seems mandatory, providing a fundamental support to guarantee successful results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1051/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Nuova INDAGO, S.r.l.', u'Dipartimento di Scienze della Natura e del Territorio, Universit\xe0 di Sassari', u'Centro Interuniversitario di Biologia ed Ecologia Applicata, CIBM', u'Autorit\xe0 Portuale di Civitavecchia Fiumicino Gaeta, AP']]
[u'Feeding behaviour in a \u2018basal\u2019 tortoise provides insights on the transitional feeding mode at the dawn of modern land turtle evolution', ['Nikolay Natchev', 'Nikolay Tzankov', 'Ingmar Werneburg', 'Egon Heiss'], u'2015-05-09', u'Almost all extant land turtles are highly associated with terrestrial habitats and the few tortoises with high affinity to aquatic environment are found within the genus Manouria. Manouria belongs to a clade which forms the sister taxon to all remaining tortoises and is suitable to be used as a model for studying evolutionary transitions from water to land within modern turtles. We analysed the feeding behaviour of M. emys and due to its phylogenetic position, we hypothesise that the species might have retained some ancestral characteristics associated to aquatic lifestyle. We tested whether M. emys is able to feed both in aquatic and terrestrial environments as mud turtles do. In fact, M. emys repetitively tried to reach submerged food items in water, but always failed to grasp them and no suction feeding mechanism was applied. When feeding on land, M. emys showed another peculiar behaviour; it grasped food items by its jaws \u2013 a behaviour typical for aquatic or semiaquatic turtles \u2013 and not by the tongue as in the typical feeding mode in all tortoises studied so far. In M. emys, the hyolingual complex remained retracted during all food uptake sequences, but the food transport was entirely lingual based. The kinematical profile significantly differed from those described for other tortoises and from those proposed from the general models on the function of the feeding systems in lower tetrapods. We conclude that the feeding behaviour of M. emys might reflect a remnant of the primordial condition expected in the aquatic ancestor of tortoises.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/896/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Integrative Zoology, Vienna University', u'Faculty of Natural Science, Shumen University', u'Section Vertebrates, National Museum of Natural History, Bulgarian Academy of Sciences', u'Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde, Leibniz-Institut f\xfcr Evolutions- & Biodiversit\xe4tsforschung an der Humboldt-Universit\xe4t zu Berlin', u'Institute of Systematic Zoology and Evolutionary Biology, Friedrich-Schiller-University Jena']]
[u'Conservation of the critically endangered endemic Malaysian black fighting fish Betta persephone Schaller (Teleostei: Osphronemidae): a brief review', ['Kok-Gan Chan'], u'2015-05-08', u'Malaysian black fighting fish Betta persephone Schaller (Teleostei: Osphronemidae) is economically and ecologically important fish in South East Asia notably in Malaysia. The locals keep this fish as ornemental fish as well as biocontrol for mosquitoes larvae. But due to rapid deterioriration of its habitats and economy activities, hence this fish population is decreasing at an alarming level. If this goes unnoticed, the fish may face the risk of extinction. In this review, the author performed a systematic approach to analyse the issues, and propose the ways forward to preserve and sustain this fish both in captivity as well as in its natural habitat.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1048/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Division of Genetics & Molecular Biology, Institute of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Malaya']]
[u'Importance of Posidonia oceanica meadows for the distribution of the mollusc bivalve Pinna nobilis (Linnaeus, 1758) in the Capo Carbonara Marine Protected Area', ['Maria-Francesca Cinti', 'Francesca Frau', 'Fabrizio Atzori', 'Stefano Corrias'], u'2015-05-07', u'Posidonia oceanica meadows are the preferential habitat for many plant and animal protected species including the mollusc bivalve Pinna nobilis. In this study, we evaluated the importance of the substrate structure for the distribution of the species in the Capo Carbonara Marine Protected Area (Sardinia south east), recognized as a Specially Protected Area of Mediterranean Importance (SPAMI) and Site of Community Importance (SCI ITB040020) of the Natura 2000 network. For this purpose four study areas, exposed to the North West and South East of the Capo Carbonara promontory, and characterized by P. oceanica meadows on both sandy and rocky substrates, with a total area of about 20ha, have been investigated. Visual sightings were conducted in situ during the months of September and October 2013 and 2014 along linear transects at depths between 1 and 10 meters to collect information on the presence, morphometric characteristics and depth of specimens of P. nobilis. A total of 139 individuals were recorded, 126 of them were alive (90.6%) and 13 were dead (9.4%); 51 individuals (36.7%) were found on rocky substrates, with a mortality rate of 6.2%, an average height of 34.4\xb19.9 cm, and at an average depth of 4.7\xb11.7 m. On sandy substrates, the number of individuals was 88 (63.3%), with a mortality rate of 11.4% and average height of 39.65\xb114.3 cm, at the average depth of 5.8\xb12.1 m. This study confirmed the importance of P. oceanica for the distribution of P. nobilis, which showed a preference for P. oceanica meadows set on sandy substrate. Therefore, for the management purposes of the Capo Carbonara Marine Protected Area, it would be interesting to understand which are the main causes of the greater mortality registered on sandy substrate and if these causes are related to environmental (i.e. sedimentation, predation) and/or anthropogenic (i.e. anchoring, collecting) factors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1047/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Area Marina Protetta Capo Carbonara, Comune di Villasimius']]
[u'Development of a cognitive bias methodology for measuring low mood in chimpanzees', ['Melissa Bateson', 'Daniel Nettle'], u'2015-05-07', u'There is an ethical and scientific need for objective, well-validated measures of low mood in captive chimpanzees. We describe the development of a novel cognitive task designed to measure \u2018pessimistic\u2019 bias in judgments of expectation of reward, a cognitive marker of low mood previously validated in a wide range of species, and report training and test data from three common chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). The chimpanzees were trained on an arbitrary visual discrimination in which lifting a pale grey paper cone was associated with reinforcement with a peanut, whereas lifting a dark grey cone was associated with no reward. The discrimination was trained by sequentially presenting the two cone types until significant differences in latency to touch the cone types emerged, and was confirmed by simultaneously presenting both cone types in choice trials. Subjects were subsequently tested on their latency to touch unrewarded cones of three intermediate shades of grey not previously seen. Pessimism was indicated by the similarity between the latency to touch intermediate cones and the latency to touch the trained, unreinforced, dark grey cones. Three subjects completed training and testing, two adult males and one adult female. All subjects learnt the discrimination (107-240 trials), and retained it during five sessions of testing. There was no evidence that latencies to lift intermediate cones increased over testing, as would have occurred if subjects learnt that these were never rewarded, suggesting that the task could be used for repeated testing of individual animals. There was a significant difference between subjects in their relative latencies to touch intermediate cones (pessimism index) that emerged following the second test session, and was not changed by the addition of further data. The most dominant male subject was least pessimistic, and the female most pessimistic. We argue that the task has the potential to be used to assess longitudinal changes in sub-clinical levels of low mood in chimpanzees, however further work with a larger sample of animals is required to validate this claim.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/888/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Institute of Neuroscience / Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle University']]
[u'Timing of hibernation and reproduction in the endangered New Mexico meadow jumping mouse (Zapus hudsonius luteus)', ['Jennifer K. Frey'], u'2015-05-06', u'Hibernation is a key life history feature that can impact many other crucial aspects of a species\u2019 biology, such as its survival and reproduction. I examined the timing of hibernation and reproduction in the federally endangered New Mexico meadow jumping mouse (Zapus hudsonius luteus), which occurs across a broad range of latitudes and elevations in the American Southwest. Data from museum specimens and field studies supported predictions for later emergence and shorter active intervals in montane populations relative to low-elevation populations. A low-elevation population located at Bosque del Apache National Wildlife Refuge (BANWR) in the Rio Grande valley was most similar to other populations of Z. hudsonius: the first emergence date was in mid-May and there was an active interval of 162 days. In montane populations of Z. h. luteus, the date of first emergence was delayed until mid-June and the active interval was reduced to ca 130 days, similar to some populations of the western jumping mouse (Z. princeps). Last date of immergence into hibernation occurred at about the same time in all populations (mid to late October). Evidence suggests that females may have a single litter per year in montane populations. At BANWR two peaks in reproduction were expected based on similarity of active season to Z. h. preblei, but the population exhibited little detectable above-ground activity in August, which could stem from a failure of the population to produce early litters. Recommendations are made with respect to appropriate timing of surveys for Z. h. luteus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1046/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Fish, Wildlife, and Conservation Ecology, New Mexico State University']]
[u'\u201cI tawt I taw a puddy tat!": Extinction and uncertain sightings of the Barbary lion', ['Tamsin E Lee', 'Simon A Black', 'Amina Fellous', 'Nobuyuki Yamaguchi', 'Francesco Angelici', 'Hadi Al Hikmani', 'J. Michael Reed', 'Chris S Elphick', 'David L Roberts'], u'2015-05-06', u'As species become rare and approach extinction, purported sightings can be controversial, especially when scarce management resources are at stake. We report a Bayesian model where we consider the probability that each individual sighting is valid. Obtaining these probabilities clearly requires a strict framework to ensure that they are as representative as possible. We used a process, which has proven to provide accurate estimates from a group of experts, to obtain probabilities for the validation of 35 sightings of the Barbary lion. We considered the scenario where experts are simply asked whether a sighting was valid, as well as when we asked them to score the sighting based on distinguishablity, observer competence, and verifiability. We find that asking experts to provide scores for these three aspects resulted in each sighting being considered more individually. Additionally, since the heavy reliance on the choice of prior can often be the downfall of Bayesian methods, we use an informed prior which changes with time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1045/', ['Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford', u'Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology, University of Kent', u'Agence Nationale pour la Conservation de la Nature', u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Qatar University', u'Italian Foundation of Vertebrate Zoology (FIZV)', u'Office for Conservation of the Environment', u'Department of Biology, Tufts University', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Connecticut', u'Durrell Institute of Conservation and Ecology, School of Anthropology and Conservation, University of Kent']]
[u'Sponges of Posidonia oceanica meadows (Sardinia, W-Mediterranean Sea)', ['Andrea Padiglia', 'Barbara Cadeddu', 'Daniela Demurtas', 'Marco Bertolino', 'Renata Manconi', 'Roberto Pronzato'], u'2015-05-06', u'Sponges are one of the main components of Mediterranean benthic ecosystems. Aim of this work was to perform a preliminary survey of conspicuous sponges in the Marine Protected Areas of Capo Caccia \u2013 Isola Piana and Asinara (North-Western Sardinia) harbouring wide Posidonia oceanica meadows. Specimens were photographed in vivo, collected along linear transects in shallow water by snorkeling and SCUBA diving, preserved (dry and/or ethanol) and identified at species level. Preliminary results show notable values of taxonomic richness when compared to previous papers confirming that P. oceanica meadows represent a suitable habitat for sponges. Some sponge species preferentially colonize rhizomes, others are found mainly in inter-mattes areas; only a few species are able to settle on leaves. Rhizomes offer a steady, permanent and shaded substratum, while leaves represent an unsteady substrate been smooth, short-lived, more exposed, and constantly moving. Sponges perform different key functional roles in the meadows: a) they host diversified invertebrate associations providing also refuge for sciaphilous invertebrates and nursery for juveniles at body surface and within canals of the aquiferous system; b) they are able to recycle particulate and dissolved organic matter acting as biofilters (active filter feeders); c) they contribute to improve circulation by pumping activity in the water column producing microcurrents particulary effective in lentic conditions. On the other side, to live in the meadows is very advantageous for sponges, gaining protection against storm surges. However data suggest the need of continuous monitoring to assess the impact of invasive algae such as those belonging to the genus Caulerpa and contribute to shed light on the problem of diversity loss by alien species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1044/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Science for Nature and Environmental, University of Sassari', u'Department of Earth, Environment and Life Sciences, University of Genoa']]
[u'Mapping Posidonia oceanica meadows through time: a story of precision, evaluation and fragmentation', ['Arnaud Abadie', 'Matthieu Jousseaume', 'Pierre Lejeune', 'Sylvie Gobert'], u'2015-05-06', u'Over the last decades, the interest in mapping Posidonia oceanica beds has increased along with the improvement of the equipment\u2019s precision of data acquisition. In Calvi Bay (Corsica, France) the meadows cover an area of about 5 km\xb2 and are found at a depth ranging from 3 m to 37 m. The availability of three distinct datasets for 1997, 2002 and 2010 allowed to assess changes in the patchiness of the meadows in the bay and to investigate evolution of maps precision through a surface analysis via GIS software. Thus, three maps were elaborated combining aerial photographs and side scan sonar images. The meadows percentage of cover through time was assessed using four bathymetric sections: 0-10 m, 11-20 m, 21-30 m and 31-40 m. Differences in the patchiness of P. oceanica meadows between 1997 and 2010 appear to be moderate (less than 3 %) in the sections 0-10 m and 11-20 m and then greatly increase with depth: 24 % at 21-30 m and 39 % at 31-40 m. This amazing regression seems hardly natural and unlikely given the slight quantity of human activities that can cause damages on the P. oceanica meadows of the Calvi Bay. These results are likely to be mainly due to the improvement of precision and resolution of the aerial photographs (5 m in 1997, 0.8 m in 2002 and 0.5 m in 2010) and sonar images (5 m in 1997, 3 m in 2002 and 0.5 m in 2010). An issue of habitat determination (human vs instrumental) linked with the method adopted for mapping can also cause differences in the percentage of cover. Given the different accuracy among the three maps, the real regression and fragmentation of P. oceanica meadows could be hardly assessed. However, in several areas where the human activities are important, a clear regression or even a disappearance of the meadows has been observed. It is obvious that the last maps are more accurate than the previous ones and, thus, the former can be used for management purpose as well as for study on the patchiness; however, they still keep uncertainty no matter which method is used to create them.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1043/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Station de Recherches Sous-marines et Oceanographiques, STARESO', u'Laboratory of Oceanology - MARE Centre, University of Liege', u"Cart'o"]]
[u'Assessment of the conservation status of Posidonia oceanica beds in the marine Site of Community Importance in Villasimius (Italy) within the project LIFE+ RES MARIS', ['Francesca Frau', 'Maria-Francesca Cinti', 'Valeria Masala', 'Stefano Acunto'], u'2015-05-06', u'The marine Site of Community Importance (SCI ITB040020) of the network Natura 2000 is included almost entirely within the perimeter of the Marine Protected Area Capo Carbonara (South East Sardinia, Italy) which is characterized by a high biodiversity, with 720 species and 30 marine habitats reported. Hence, it is recognised as a Specially Protected Area of Mediterranean Importance (SPAMI). During the summer the area is affected by anthropogenic impacts due to recreational activities (e.g. fishing, pleasure boating, swimming, diving) that represents potential threats to some species and protected habitats. This study is part of the project LIFE+ RES MARIS (LIFE13 NAT / IT / 000 433), addressed to the restoration and conservation of marine and terrestrial ecosystems included in the SCI under Habitats Directive 92/43/EEC. The aims is to evaluate the conservation status of the priority habitat 1120 \u201cPosidonia beds\u201d through mapping and characterization of the Posidonia oceanica meadow in areas that previous studies have identified as the most affected by anchoring, for a total surface of about 400 ha. Acoustic methods (Side Scan Sonar), direct visual surveys in SCUBA diving and underwater towed camera are applied. Assessments of coverage of P. oceanica, types of substrate, continuity of the meadow, presence of dead matte, Cymodocea nodosa and benthic alien species (e.g. Caulerpa cylindracea) are reported. Results are crucial for enhancing the knowledge of the current distribution and status of the priority habitat 1120 and is basic for planning further concrete conservation and monitoring measures.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1042/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Area Marina Protetta Capo Carbonara, Comune di Villasimius', u'Indagini Ambientali in Ecosistemi Acquatici, Studio Associato OIKOS']]
[u'Rapid drop in the reproduction number during the Ebola outbreak in the Democratic Republic of Congo', ['Christian L Althaus'], u'2015-05-06', u'In 2014, the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) experienced an outbreak of Ebola virus disease (EVD) with 69 reported cases. I fitted an EVD transmission model to data of this outbreak and estimated the basic reproduction number R0 = 5.2 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 4.0-6.7). The model suggests that the net reproduction number Rt fell below unity 28 days (95% CI: 25-34 days) after the onset of symptoms in the index case. This illustrates that early outbreak detection and rapid implementation of control interventions are crucial for preventing wider spread of EVD in rural areas.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1041/', ['Mathematical Biology', 'Virology', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (ISPM), University of Bern']]
[u'Data management aspects of public engagement with biodiversity documentation', ['Alvaro Ortiz-Troncoso'], u'2015-05-06', u'Technological developments open up new opportunities for collaboration between biodiversity researchers and the general public. Three exemplary case studies were reviewed from literature: digitizing museum specimens, text-mining archived expedition journals and handling environmental monitoring data. Data management principles were applied to refine the ensuing requirements. Specific requirements were found to exist in three areas: collecting data, sharing data and improving data quality. Implications for data governance and quality control are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/992/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Network Science and Online Social Networks', 'Social Computing', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Science Programme Public Engagement with Science, Museum fu\u0308r Naturkunde, Leibniz Institute for Research on Evolution and Biodiversity at the Humboldt University Berlin']]
[u'Highlights from the 1st Student Symposium on Computational Biology and Life Sciences, organised by ISCB Regional Student Group, UK', ['Farzana Rahman', 'Rohit Farmer', 'Sayoni Das', 'Fatima Vayani', 'Mehedi Hassan'], u'2015-05-05', u'In October 2014, the UK regional student group of the International Society for Computational Biology, held an inaugural meeting at the University of South Wales, UK. The meeting was targeted at the next generation of computational biologists in the UK, namely the post graduate students and post-doctoral researchers working in the UK. Delegates from 24 British institutes attended the event. This short report summaries the scientific content and activities of this student-led event and a short background of the initiative.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/999/', ['Computational Biology'], [u'School of Computing and Mathematics, University of South Wales', u'School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham', u'Institute of Structural & Molecular Biology Research, UCL', u"Algorithms and Bioinformatics group, King's College London"]]
[u'Context dependency in biodiversity patterns of stream metacommunities', ['Jonathan D Tonkin', 'Jani Heino', 'Andrea Sundermann', 'Peter Haase', 'Sonja C Jahnig'], u'2015-05-05', u'Context dependency is a key challenge emerging in metacommunity ecology, which is hindering the development of general ecological theories. River networks and other dendritic systems provide unique systems for examining variation in the processes shaping biodiversity between different metacommunities. We examined biodiversity patterns in five benthic invertebrate datasets, from two drainage basins in central Germany, with the aim of exploring context dependency in these systems. We used variance partitioning to disentangle the variation explained in three biodiversity metrics, including the local contribution to beta diversity (LCBD; a measure of the uniqueness of a site), by proxies of network position (i.e. catchment size and elevation) and local environmental conditions. Contrary to expectation, we found no evidence of a decline in LCBD downstream in our study. Local habitat conditions and catchment land use played a much stronger role than catchment size and elevation in explaining biodiversity metrics. Observed patterns were highly variable between different datasets in our study. These findings suggest that factors shaping biodiversity patterns in these systems are highly context dependent and less related to their position along the river network than local habitat conditions. Given the clear context dependency between datasets, we urge researchers to focus on disentangling the factors driving the high levels of variability between individual systems through the simultaneous study of a number of replicate metacommunities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1040/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Department of River Ecology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute', u'Natural Environment Centre, Biodiversity, Finnish Environment Institute', u'Department of Ecosystem Research, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB)']]
[u'The evolution of the flippers and the paleoecology of Panchelonioidea (Testudines, Cryptodira)', ['Isadora Gerheim', 'Pedro S. R. Romano'], u'2015-05-04', u'Background. The recent data on Panchelonioidea\u2019s phylogeny suggested the family level relationships as (Toxochelyidae, (Cheloniidae, (Protostegidae, Dermochelyidae))). Despite the similarity between their limbs, it is known that the flippers morphology on marine turtles evolved independently in these clades. A remarkable feature is the presence of phalangeal condyles in Toxochelyidae and basal Protostegidae, a plesiomorphic state that allows the movement of the hand. On the other hand, the apomorphic state of having a rigid paddle is found in modern turtles (Cheloniidae and Dermochelyidae). Also, living Chelonioidea (Cheloniidae and Dermochelyidae) has the longest length of the hand and the shortest length of the humerus compared to other Testudines, as analyzed by Joyce and Gauthier (2004, Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B, 271). Methods. We took measurements of the forelimb (the length of humerus, ulna and digit III) from five Panchelonioidea fossil species (Protostega gigas, Toxochelys latiremys, Allopleuron hoffmanni, Eochelone brabantica and Archelon ischyros) using ImageJ 1.48v. The percentages of the length of the hand and the humerus with respect to the whole limb were then calculated. The percentages of the five species were added to the two-dimension ternary diagram made by Joyce and Gauthier (2004) in order to evaluate the plot of these species and compare them to other turtles. Results. Archelon ischyros was plotted near Toxochelys latiremys. The Toxochelidae are the sister group of Chelonioidea and they are known to have a poor development of the limbs into flippers and a preference for shallow and benthic habitat. Both were located near non-marine turtle species, showing that they had the relatively shortest hand within Panchelonioidea, whereas Protostega gigas, Allopleuron hoffmanni and Eochelone brabantica was plotted close to the recent Cheloniidae. Discussion. The results suggest a less pelagic habitat for Protostega gigas and Archelon ischyros, resembling a hypothesis formulated by Hay (1905, Bull. Am. Mus. Nat. Hist., 21) that Archelon was not as pelagic as Dermochelys and by Wieland (1909, Am. Jour. Sci., 27) that this species did not have a powerful type of muscular insertion, maybe indicating a less strong swimming power. These results together with the fact that basal species of Protostegidae retain the phalangeal condyles, suggests that after the split between these families, the flippers retained the primitive length of limbs. It also brings back a Zangerl\u2019s hypothesis (1980, Amer. Zool., 20) of a Chelydra-like ancestor for Panchelonioidea, with unspecialized limbs. As conclusion, we suggest that Panchelonioidea ancestor flipper condition would last in stem Toxochelyidae and stem Chelonioidea and then get independently specialized in Cheloniidae and Dermochelyidae.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1039/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Vicosa']]
[u'DiscoPlot: Discordant read visualisation', ['Mitchell J Sullivan', 'Scott A Beatson'], u'2015-05-04', u'Over the last decade, the emergence of high-throughput sequencing has led to an increase in both the size and scope of genome sequencing projects. Although genome sequencing and analysis has changed dramatically during this time, the way read alignments are visualised has remained largely unchanged. To address the problem of visualising growing sequencing datasets, we have developed DiscoPlot, a tool for visualising read alignments using a two-dimensional scatterplot. DiscoPlot allows the user to quickly identify genomic rearrangements, misassemblies and sequencing artefacts by providing a scalable method for visualising large sections of the genome. It reads single-end or paired read alignments in SAM, BAM or standard BLAST tab format and creates a scatter plot of opaque crosses representing the alignments to a reference. DiscoPlot is freely available (under a GPL license) for download (Mac OS X, Unix and Windows) at https://mjsull.github.io/DiscoPlot.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1038/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'School of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences, The University of Queensland', u'Australian Infectious Diseases Research Centre, The University of Queensland']]
[u'Contiguity: Contig adjacency graph construction and visualisation', ['Mitchell J Sullivan', 'Nouri L Ben Zakour', 'Brian M Forde', 'Mitchell Stanton-Cook', 'Scott A Beatson'], u'2015-05-04', u'Contiguity is an interactive software for the visualization and manipulation of de novo genome assemblies. Contiguity creates and displays information on contig adjacency which is contextualized by the simultaneous display of a comparison between assembled contigs and reference sequence. Where scaffolders allow unambiguous connections between contigs to be resolved into a single scaffold, Contiguity allows the user to create all potential scaffolds in ambiguous regions of the genome. This enables the resolution of novel sequence or structural variants from the assembly. In addition, Contiguity provides a sequencing and assembly agnostic approach for the creation of contig adjacency graphs. To maximize the number of contig adjacencies determined, Contiguity combines information from read pair mappings, sequence overlap and De Bruijn graph exploration. We demonstrate how highly sensitive graphs can be achieved using this method. Contig adjacency graphs allow the user to visualize potential arrangements of contigs in unresolvable areas of the genome. By combining adjacency information with comparative genomics, Contiguity provides an intuitive approach for exploring and improving sequence assemblies. It is also useful in guiding manual closure of long read sequence assemblies. Contiguity is an open source application, implemented using Python and the Tkinter GUI package that can run on any Unix, OSX and Windows operating system. It has been designed and optimized for bacterial assemblies. Contiguity is available at http://mjsull.github.io/Contiguity .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1037/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'School of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences, The University of Queensland', u'Australian Infectious Diseases Research Centre, The University of Queensland']]
[u'Epiphytic bryozoan assemblages on Posidonia oceanica leaves in the area affected by Costa Concordia wreck', ['Marina Penna', 'Tiziano Bacci', 'Luisa Nicoletti', 'Sante Francesco Rende', 'Benedetta Trabucco', 'Paola Gennaro', 'Veronica Marusso', 'Anna Maria Cicero'], u'2015-05-04', u'Epiphytes cover on Posidonia oceanica leaves in the area affected by Costa Concordia wreck (Giglio Island, Tuscany, Italy) have been assessed as indicator of environmental quality within the integrated monitoring plan set up after the accident. Bryozoans have wide habitat distribution and are one of the most common sessile organisms in the epiphytic community of P. oceanica, have large species diversity and so are potential indicators of environmental factors and changes. The samples were taken from shortly after the sinking of the ship until just before the removal of the wreck in July (2012, 2013 and 2014). Three sampling sites were selected according to an asymmetric hierarchical experimental design. Three sampling areas of approximately 5 \xd7 5 m and tens of meters apart from each other were randomly selected in each site. Five orthotropic shoots were collected haphazardly for each area. The sites were differently related to the influence of the wreck; one impact and two control sites. Percentage cover of bryozoan species was evaluated on the whole internal face of the four outer leaves per shoot. The analysis of the epiphyte community allowed us to identify most species normally present on these substrates. Besides a high natural spatio-temporal variability, feeble differences in the bryozoan assemblages were detected between the site near the wreck and the control sites, probably as a consequence of several synergic effects, firstly to the physical presence of the wreck and of the wreck removal yard.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1036/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Biocenotic Monitoring and Environmental Quality Assessment, ISPRA, Institute for Environmental Protection and Research', u'National Institute for Environmental Protection and Research, ISPRA, Institute for Environmental Protection and Research']]
[u'Influence of hydrodynamic setting on Posidonia oceanica meadow landscape and architecture', ['Matthew Pace', 'Joseph A Borg', 'Charles Galdies'], u'2015-05-04', u'Seagrass meadow characteristics, including distribution, shape, size, and within-meadow architectural features may be influenced by various physical factors, including hydrodynamic forces. However, such influence has hardly been assessed for meadows of the ecologically important and endemic Mediterranean seagrass Posidonia oceanica. Estimates of wind- generated wave energy and the energy attenuated by depth were computed by a hydrodynamic model, WEMo (Wave Exposure Model), for five sites on the north-eastern coast of the Maltese Islands which each supported patchy, reticulate and continuous bed types of Posidonia oceanica. The distribution of P. oceanica meadows at these sites were mapped to a depth of circa 15m using a combination of aerial photography and SCUBA diving surveys. Data on meadow architectural attributes were collected for each of the three P. oceanica bed types at each of the five study sites. Metrics for P. oceanica landscape features were calculated via FRAGSTATS v4 for replicate 2500m2 subsamples that were extracted from the seagrass habitat maps. The results indicate that landscape and architectural features of relatively deep P. oceanica meadows are significantly influenced by the hydrodynamic setting. P. oceanica meadows tend to be patchier with lower overall cover, more complex patch shapes and reduced architectural complexity along a wave exposure gradient from low to high energy. The findings from the present study highlight the importance of understanding the influence of hydrodynamic factors on the natural dynamism of seagrass meadow landscape and architecture for the conservation and management of P. oceanica habitat.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1035/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Malta', u'Environmental Management and Planning Division, Institute of Earth Systems, University of Malta']]
[u'Three-dimensional range shifts in biodiversity driven by recent climate warming', ['Peter Haase', 'Fengqing Li', 'Andrea Sundermann', 'Armin Lorenz', 'Jonathan Tonkin', 'Stefan Stoll'], u'2015-05-04', u'Studies investigating changes in community composition in response to recent climate warming are mostly restricted to one-dimensional (e.g. latitudinal) gradients, whereas species movements are in reality three dimensional. Based on 3,245 benthic invertebrate samples from Central European streams over large altitudinal, latitudinal and longitudinal gradients, and covering the period 1986-2009, we have developed an advanced community temperature index (CTI). This CTI enables the analysis of three-dimensional community range shifts not only in freshwater but also in marine and terrestrial environments. Overall, and in contrast to terrestrial species, benthic invertebrate communities have been able to keep up with recent climate warming. However, their ability to track temperature shifts differed grossly between the three spatial dimensions, with the strongest response to elevation. Nevertheless, the price these communities had to pay was high, as total benthic invertebrate abundance and richness in low-temperature dwelling species have already declined by 21% and 52.5%, respectively. Our approach has emphasized the complex reaction of species towards increasing temperatures, allowing a more complete picture of the subtle community shifts in response to climate change.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1034/', ['Biodiversity'], [u'Department of River Ecology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute and Natural History Museum Frankfurt', u'Fakult\xe4t f\xfcr Biologie, Aquatische \xd6kologie, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Efficient routes to land conservation given risk of covenant failure', ['Richard Schuster', 'Peter Arcese'], u'2015-05-04', u'Conservation initiatives to protect valued species communities in human-dominated landscapes face challenges linked to their potential costs. Conservation covenants on private land may represent a cost-effective alternative to land purchase, although many questions on the long-term monitoring and enforcement costs of covenants and the risk of violation or legal challenges remain unquantified. We explore the cost-effectiveness of conservation covenants, defined here as the fraction of the high-biodiversity landscape potentially protected via investment in covenants versus land purchase. We show that covenant violation and dispute rates substantially affect the estimated long-term cost-effectiveness of a covenant versus land purchase strategy. Our results suggest the long-term cost-effectiveness of conservation covenants may outperform land purchase as a strategy to protect biodiversity as long as disputes and legal challenges are low, but point to a critical need for monitoring data to reduce uncertainty and maximize conservation investment cost-effectiveness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1033/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Forest and Conservation Sciences, University of British Columbia']]
[u'Ecological validity of methods to assess walking ability in Multiple Sclerosis', ['Jan-Patrick Stellmann'], u'2015-05-04', u'Mobility is one of the most important bodily functions of persons with Multiple Sclerosis. Cross-sectional data as well as preliminary findings from a short baseline to treatment studies indicate a poor ecological validity of clinical gait tests. Real-life use of accelerometer should be used to assess mobility in MS. Advanced MRI techniques such as probabilistic tractography might help to narrow the gap between structural imaging as a marker of neurodegeneration and real-life performance in Multiple Sclerosis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1032/', ['Neurology'], [u'Institut of Neuroimmunology and Multiple Sclerosis (INIMS), University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf']]
[u'Quantitative assessment of movements with inertial sensors in Parkinson\u2019s disease', ['Markus A Hobert'], u'2015-05-04', u"A major problem in the field of Parkinson's disease (PD) is that there is no objective assessment tool for PD symptoms to date. At the moment data are mostly collected with questionaires, interviews, or clinical scales. This makes the assessment of changes in the course of the disease, due to training or due to medication very difficult for patients and medical staff. A way to solve this issue is the objective measurement of movements (in patients with PD) with (small) body-worn sensor units containing accelerometers, gyroscopes and magnetometers.\nThere are four main fields of applications of these sensor units in PD:\n1) Measuring symptoms and instrumented clinical scales;\n2) Instrumented functional assessments;\n3) Quantification of daily activity;\n4) Technology-assisted neurorehabilitation;\nIn the talk examples of these four fields of applications have been discussed.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1031/', ['Neuroscience', 'Geriatrics', 'Neurology'], [u'Center for Neurology and Hertie Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Department of Neurodegeneration, University of Tuebingen']]
[u'Evolutionary ecology of microorganisms: from the tamed to the wild', ['Jay T Lennon', 'Vincent J Denef'], u'2015-05-04', u'An overarching goal of biology is to understand how evolutionary and ecological processes generate and maintain biodiversity. While evolutionary biologists interested in biodiversity tend to focus on the mechanisms controlling rates of evolution and how this influences the phylogenetic relationship among species, ecologists attempt to explain the distribution and abundance of taxa based upon interactions among species and their environment. Recently, a more concerted effort has been made to integrate some of the theoretical and empirical approaches from the fields of ecology and evolutionary biology. This integration has been motivated in part by the growing evidence that evolution can happen on \u201crapid\u201d or contemporary time scales, suggesting that eco-evolutionary feedbacks can alter system dynamics in ways that cannot be predicted based on ecological principles alone. As such, it may be inappropriate to ignore evolutionary processes when attempting to understand ecological phenomena in natural and managed ecosystems. In this chapter, we highlight why it is particularly important to consider eco-evolutionary feedbacks for microbial populations. We emphasize some of the major processes that are thought to influence the strength of eco-evolutionary dynamics, provide an overview of methods used to quantify the relative importance of ecology and evolution, and showcase the importance of considering evolution in a community context and how this may influence the dynamics and stability of microbial systems under novel environmental conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1025/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Indiana University', u'Department of  Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan']]
[u'Quorum sensing and genomic studies of a marine bacterium Vibrio variabilis strain T01', ['Kok-Gan Chan', 'Nur Izzati Mohamad'], u'2015-05-03', u'Vibrio variabilis strain T01 was isolated from the coastal waters in Hulu Selangor, Malaysia and its genome sequenced. This curved gram-negative bacterium shows cell-to-cell communication properties. The characteristics of the sequenced genome and its annotation processes are described here. The finished assembled whole genome of T01T exhibits genome size of 4,529,728 bp in 83 contigs with 46.22% G+C content, 4053 protein coding genes and 94 RNA genes. The whole genome analysis revealed the presence of quorum sensing signalling molecule synthase gene (luxM) which is crucial to understand the quorum sensing dependent phenotypes in this isolate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1029/', ['Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Division of Genetics and Molecular Biology, Institute of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Science, University of Malaya']]
[u'Tooth marks on isolated bones cannot be attributed to Tyrannosaurid play behavior', ['Chan-gyu Yun'], u'2015-05-03', u'Rothschild (2014) argues that many tyrannosaurid tooth marks left on isolated dinosaur bones cannot be attributable to their feeding behavior but instead, can be attributable to their play behavior. However, the evidence suggested by Rothschild (2014) are very weak. Carnivores do consume parts like pes, which claimed to be not attractive to carnivores. Also, isolated bones do not suggest that the part was already isolated when the animal bit it and carnivores do not always consume bones even if they have the ability to do so. This suggests that tyrannosaurid bite marks on isolated bones, do represent feeding behavior.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1028/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Yeonsu High School']]
[u'Variable elements of metacommunity structure across an aquatic-terrestrial ecotone', ['Jonathan D Tonkin', 'Stefan Stoll', 'Sonja C Jahnig', 'Peter Haase'], u'2015-05-01', u'The Elements of Metacommunity Structure (EMS) framework gives rise to important ecological insights through the distinction of metacommunities into several different idealised structures. We examined the EMS in assemblages occupying a low-mountain river system in central Germany, sampled over three consecutive years. We compared the idealised distributions of assemblages in both the riparian floodplain zone (carabid beetles and spiders) and the benthic instream environment (benthic invertebrates). We further grouped instream organisms into taxonomic and trait groups to examine whether greater competition signal emerges in more similar species groups. We found little evidence of strong competition, even for trait-modality groups, and nestedness was almost non-existent. In addition to random distributions, Gleasonian distributions (indicating clear, but individualistic turnover between sites) were the most commonly identified structure. Clear differences were apparent between different trait groups, particularly between within-trait modalities. These were most evident for different dispersal modes and life cycle durations, with strong dispersers showing possible signs of mass effects. While random distributions may have partly reflected small sample sizes, clearly coherent patterns were evident for many groups, indicating a sufficient gradient in environmental conditions. The prevalence of random distributions suggests many species are responding to a variety of environmental filters in these river-floodplain metacommunities in an anthropogenically-dominated landscape, whereas Gleasonian distributions indicate species are responding idiosyncratically to a primary environmental gradient. Our findings further emphasise the prevalence of context dependency (spatio-temporal variability) in metacommunity studies and emphasise the need to further disentangle the causes of such variation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1026/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of River Ecology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute and Natural History Museum Frankfurt', u'Department of Ecosystem Research, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB)']]
[u'Ophiacodon long bone histology: the earliest occurrence of FLB in the mammalian stem lineage', ['Christen Shelton', 'P. Martin Sander'], u'2015-05-01', u'The origin of mammalian endothermy has long been held to reside within the early therapsid groups. However, shared histological characteristics have been observed in the bone matrix and vascularity between Ophiacodontidae and the later therapsids (Synapsida). Historically, this coincidence has been explained as simply a reflection of the presumed aquatic lifestyle of Ophiacodon or even a sign of immaturity. Here we show, by histologically sampling an ontogenetic series of Ophiacodon humeri, as well as additional material, the existence of true fibrolamellar bone in the postcranial bones of a member of \u2018Pelycosauria\u2019. Our findings have reaffirmed what previous studies first described as fast growing tissue, and by proxy, have disproven that the highly vascularized cortex is simply a reflection of young age. This tissue demonstrates the classic histological characteristics of true fibrolamellar bone (FLB). The cortex consists of primary osteons in a woven bone matrix and remains highly vascularized throughout ontogeny providing evidence to fast skeletal growth. Overall, the FLB tissue we have described in Ophiacodon is more derived or \u201cmammal-like\u201d in terms of the osteonal development, bone matrix, and skeletal growth then what has been described thus far for any other pelycosaur taxa. Ophioacodon bone histology does not show well-developed Haversian tissue. With regards to the histological record, our results remain inconclusive as to the preferred ecology of Ophiacodon, but support the growing evidence for an aquatic lifestyle. Our findings have set the evolutionary origins of modern mammalian endothermy and high skeletal growth rates back approximately 20 M.Y. to the Early Permian, and by phylogenetic extension perhaps the Late Carboniferous.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1027/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Division of Palaeontology, Steinmann Institute, Univeristy of Bonn']]
[u'Real world in cancer? Epistemology of the origin of cancer: new paradigm for the majority of cancers', ['Bjorn LDM Brucher', 'Ijaz S Jamall'], u'2015-05-01', u'Background:  The somatic mutation theory as the origin of cancer (carcinogenesis) was born some 100 years ago, when Theodor Boveri 1914 suggested that a combination of chromosomal defects may result in cancer. This was followed by Karl-Heinrich Bauer in 1928 suggesting that mutations could cause cancer. Subsequently, in 1953 Carl Nordling proposed that a number of mutated genes could cause cancer. Alfred Knudson in 1971 proposed that one hit (one mutation) would result in a clone of cancerous cells. This was modified to a 2-hit-theory later and it seems that cancer biology has continued to try to bolster the somatic mutation theory by recently suggesting that \u2018driver\u2019 and \u2018passenger\u2019 mutations were necessary and when this proved insufficient, others proposed the hyper-mutation theory in 2014. In the attempt to clothe the Emperor, it was forgotten that mutations found in advanced cancers are either late events or epiphenomena that occur after carcinogenesis (cancer development) and especially after the appearance of a pre-cancerous niche. Reality: Fewer than 10% of cancers are proven to be hereditary (i.e., causally related to germline mutations) and this ratio is even lower in cancers of the stomach (<1%), the colorectum (3-8%) and breast (8%). Infection-triggered cancers constitute some 15% of all cancers and the remaining about some 80% cancers are sporadic, meaning their cause is unknown. New cancer paradigm: Findings from the plant and animal kingdoms, molecular and clinical data over the last 250 years were critically reviewed and gave rise to a new cancer hypothesis containing a multi-step process of 6 sequences. These include, (1) a pathogenic biological or chemical stimulus is followed by (2) chronic inflammation, from which develops (3) fibrosis with associated changes in the cellular microenvironment. These remodeling changes result in a (4) pre-cancerous niche, which triggers the deployment of (5) a chronic stress escape strategy, and when this fails to resolve, (6) a transition of a normal cell to a cancer cell occurs. Consequences: This recently proposed cancer model explains the origins of the vast majority of cancers which are until now were referred to as \u2018sporadic\u2019 cancers. Furthermore, this theory points out the need to establish preventive measures long before a cancer becomes clinically apparent. The epistemology of the origin of cancer is reviewed and presented.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1024/', ['Cell Biology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Oncology'], [u'Theodor Billroth Academy', u'INCORE, International Consortium of Research Excellence of the Theodor-Billroth-Academy\xae', u'Risk-Based Decisions, Inc.']]
[u'Can DNA-based ecosystem assessments quantify species abundance? Testing primer bias and biomass - sequence relationships with an innovative metabarcoding protocol', ['Vasco Elbrecht', 'Florian Leese'], u'2015-05-01', u'Metabarcoding is an emerging genetic tool to rapidly assess biodiversity in ecosystems. It involves high-throughput sequencing of a standard gene from an environmental sample and comparison to a reference database. However, no consensus has emerged regarding laboratory pipelines to screen species diversity and infer species abundances from environmental samples. In particular, the effect of primer bias and the detection limit for specimens with a low biomass has not been systematically examined, when processing samples in bulk. We developed and tested a DNA metabarcoding protocol that utilises the standard cytochrome c oxidase subunit I (COI) barcoding fragment to detect freshwater macroinvertebrate taxa. DNA was extracted in bulk, amplified in a single PCR step, and purified, and the libraries were directly sequenced in two independent MiSeq runs (300-bp paired-end reads). Specifically, we assessed the influence of specimen biomass on sequence read abundance by sequencing 31 specimens of a stonefly species with known haplotypes spanning three orders of magnitude in biomass (experiment I). Then, we tested the recovery of 52 different freshwater invertebrate taxa of similar biomass using the same standard barcoding primers (experiment II). Each experiment was replicated ten times to maximise statistical power. The results of both experiments were consistent across replicates. We found a distinct positive correlation between species biomass and resulting numbers of MiSeq reads. Furthermore, we reliably recovered 83% of the 52 taxa used to test primer bias. However, sequence abundance varied by four orders of magnitudes between taxa despite the use of similar amounts of biomass. Our metabarcoding approach yielded reliable results for high-throughput assessments. However, the results indicated that primer efficiency is highly species-specific, which would prevent straightforward assessments of species abundance and biomass in a sample. Thus, PCR-based metabarcoding assessments of biodiversity should rely on presence-absence metrics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1023/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Animal Ecology, Evolution and Biodiversity, Ruhr University Bochum']]
[u'Metabolic syndrome in hospitalized patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease', ['Evgeni Mekov', 'Yanina Slavova', 'Adelina Tsakova', 'Marianka Genova', 'Dimitar Kostadinov', 'Delcho Minchev', 'Dora Marinova'], u'2015-05-01', u'The metabolic syndrome (MS) affects 21-53% of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) with a higher prevalence in the early stages of COPD, with results being highly variable between studies. MS may also correlate with disease characteristics. The aim of the study is to examine the prevalence of MS and its correlation with comorbidities and COPD characteristics in patients with COPD admitted for exacerbation. 152 patients with COPD admitted for exacerbation were studied for presence of MS. All of them were also assessed for vitamin D status and diabetes mellitus type 2 (DM). Data were gathered for smoking status and exacerbations during the last year. All patients completed CAT (COPD assessment test) and mMRC (Modified Medical Research Council Dyspnea scale) questionnaires and underwent spirometry. Duration of current hospital stay was recorded. 25% of patients have MS. 23,1% of the male and 29,5% of the female patients have MS (p>0.05). The prevalence of MS in this study is significantly lower when compared to a national representative study (44,6% in subjects over 45 years). 69,1% of all patients and 97,4% from MS patients have arterial hypertension. The presence of MS is associated with significantly worse cough and sleep (1st and 7th CAT questions; p=0.002 and p=0.001 respectively) and higher total CAT score (p=0.017). Average BMI is 27,31. None of the patients have MS and BMI <25. There is a correlation between the presence of MS and DM (p=0.008) and with the number of exacerbations in the last year (p=0.015). There is no correlation between the presence of MS and the pulmonary function. This study among hospitalized COPD patients finds comparable but relatively low prevalence of MS (25%) compared to previously published data (21-53%) and lower prevalence compared to general population (44,6%). MS may impact natural course and the number of exacerbations of COPD. Having in mind that MS is more common in the early stages and decreases with COPD progression, the COPD patients admitted for exacerbation may be considered as having advanced COPD.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1022/', ['Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Epidemiology', 'Internal Medicine', 'Respiratory Medicine'], [u'Clinical Center for Pulmonary diseases, Medical University - Sofia', u'Central Clinical Laboratory, Medical University - Sofia']]
[u'PANDA: pathway and annotation explorer for visualizing and interpreting gene-centric data', ['Steven N Hart', 'Raymond M Moore', 'Michael T Zimmermann', 'Gavin R Oliver', 'Jan B Egan', 'Alan H Bryce', 'Jean-Pierre A Kocher'], u'2015-05-01', u'Objective:  Bringing together genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and other \u2013omics technologies is an important step towards developing highly personalized medicine. However, instrumentation has advances far beyond expectations and now we are able to generate data faster than it can be interpreted. Materials and Methods:  We have developed PANDA ( P athway AND A nnotation) Explorer, a visualization tool that integrates gene-level annotation in the context of biological pathways to help interpret complex data from disparate sources. PANDA is a web-based application that displays data in the context of well-studied pathways like KEGG, BioCarta, and PharmGKB. PANDA represents data/annotations as icons in the graph while maintaining the other data elements (i.e. other columns for the table of annotations). Custom pathways from underrepresented diseases can be imported when existing data sources are inadequate. PANDA also allows sharing annotations among collaborators. Results  : In our first use case, we show how easy it is to view supplemental data from a manuscript in the context of a user\u2019s own data. Another use-case is provided describing how PANDA was leveraged to design a treatment strategy from the somatic variants found in the tumor of a patient with metastatic sarcomatoid renal cell carcinoma. Conclusion  : PANDA facilitates the interpretation of gene-centric annotations by visually integrating this information with context of biological pathways. The application can be downloaded or used directly from our website http://bioinformaticstools.mayo.edu/research/panda-viewer/.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1021/', ['Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics, Department of Health Sciences Research, Mayo Clinic', u'Division of Hematology/Oncology Mayo Clinic, Mayo Clinic Cancer Center']]
[u'Options for modulating intra-specific competition in colonial pinnipeds: the case of harbour seals (Phoca vitulina) in the Wadden Sea', ['Rory P Wilson', 'Nikolai Liebsch', 'Agustina Gomez-Laich', 'William P. Kay', 'Andrew Bone', 'Victoria J Hobson', 'Ursula Siebert'], u'2015-05-01', u'Colonial pinnipeds may be subject to substantial consumptive competition because they are large, slow-moving central place foragers. We examined possible mechanisms for reducing this competition by examining the diving behaviour of harbour seals (Phoca vitulina) after equipping 34 seals (11 females, 23 males) foraging from three locations; R\xf8m\xf8, Denmark and Lorenzenplate and Helgoland, Germany, in the Wadden Sea area with time-depth recorders. Analysis of 319,021 dives revealed little between-colony variation but appreciable inter-sex differences, with males diving deeper than females, but for shorter periods. Males also had higher vertical descent rates. This result suggests that males may have higher overall swim speeds, which would increase higher oxygen consumption, and may explain the shorter dive durations compared to females. Intersex variation in swim speed alone is predicted to lead to fundamental differences in the time use of three-dimensional space, which may help reduce consumptive competition in harbour seals and other colonial pinnipeds.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1020/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'Laboratory for Animal Movement, Department of Biosciences, College of Science, Swansea University', u'IFM-GEOMAR', u'Customized Animal Tracking Solutions', u'Centro Nacional Patagonico-CONICET', u'Institute for Terrestrial and Aquatic Wildlife Research, University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover, Foundation']]
[u'Seagrass ecosystems status between the sliding baseline syndrome and the need for reference conditions', ['Monica Montefalcone', 'Matteo Vacchi', 'Carla Morri', 'Marco Ferrari', 'Carlo Nike Bianchi'], u'2015-04-30', u'Marine coastal ecosystems are facing compositional and functional changes due to the increasing human footprint worldwide, and the assessment of their long-term changes becomes particularly challenging in this new "Anthropocene Epoch". Measures of change can be done by comparing the present ecosystem status to a defined baseline representing the reference condition. The "syndrome" of the sliding (or shifting) baselines, which describes the incremental lowering of ecological standards, has become a major concern when long-term changes have to be assessed because an already degraded environment status could be accepted as reference. The challenge of delineating ecosystems change in the context of sliding baselines is particularly relevant along highly anthropized coasts, as the case of the Liguria (NW Mediterranean Sea), where pristine coastal areas could not be expected anymore. The Marine Strategy Framework Directive (MSFD, 2008/56/EEC) suggests three approaches to define reference conditions: i) comparison with the status in Marine Protected Areas (MPAs); ii) use of historical information; iii) modelling. Here we report recent applications of these three approaches in Liguria to assess the status of seagrass meadow ecosystem. Ligurian MPAs are too recent and often insufficiently enforced, so that Posidonia oceanica meadows developing in MPAs are far from the expected good ecological status. Available historical information on seagrass distribution was sometime unreliable. Models are promising but face intellectual difficulties (e.g., choice of descriptors). Validating historical data with predictive models showed effective in delineating the trajectory of change experienced by the Ligurian seagrass meadows. Many meadows have been lost and most are showing structural degradation, which favoured the substitution by alien green algae of the genus Caulerpa and triggered a phase shift in the seagrass ecosystems, with the consequent loss of biodiversity, functioning and economic value of the ecosystem services provided by healthy meadows.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1018/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'DISTAV, University of Genoa', u'CEREGE CNRS-IRD UMR, Aix-Marseille University']]
[u'Responses of petiole sap flow to light and vapor pressure deficit in the tropical tree Tabebuia rosea (Bignoniaceae)', ['Adam Roddy', 'Klaus Winter', 'Todd Dawson'], u'2015-04-30', u'Continuous measurements of sap flow have been widely used to estimate water flux through tree stems and branches. However, stem-level measurements lack the resolution necessary for accurately determining fine-scale, leaf-level responses to environmental variables. We used the heat ratio method to measure sap flow rates through leaf petioles and leaflet petiolules of saplings of the tropical tree Tabebuia rosea (Bignoniaceae) to determine how leaf and leaflet sap flow responds to variation in photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and vapor pressure deficit (VPD). In the morning sap flow rates to east-facing leaves increased 26 minutes before adjacent west-facing leaves. Integrated daily sap flow was negatively correlated with daily mean VPD, and sap flow declined when VPD exceeded 2.2 kPa whether this occurred in the morning or afternoon, consistent with a feedforward response to humidity. Indeed, changes in VPD lagged behind changes in sap flow. In contrast, changes in PAR often preceded changes in sap flow. The sap flow-VPD relationship was characterized by two distinct patterns of hysteresis, while the sap flow-PAR relationship displayed three types of hysteresis, and the type of VPD hysteresis that occurred on a given day was correlated with the type of PAR hysteresis occurring on that day. These patterns highlight how multiple environmental drivers interact to control leaf sap flux and that the development of sap flow sensors capable of measuring individual leaves could drastically influence the amount of data recordable for these structures.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1017/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California, Berkeley', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute']]
[u'Monitoring of marine phanerogams\u2019 habitats and assessment of areas exposed to anchoring in the International Marine Park of Bonifacio (Sardinia Area)', ['Andrea Cossu', 'Mario De Luca', 'Yuri Donno'], u'2015-04-30', u'The International Marine Park of the Strait of Bonifacio and the National Park of La Maddalena have started a series of investigations in the marine areas under their jurisdiction. Through the European project, GECT (European Group of Territorial Cooperation), studies have been carried out to define the type, the structural characteristics of the Posidonia oceanica seagrass and to evaluate the impact of dropping anchors. The study, carried out by a team of experts from the institutions named above, used shared methodologies in relation to the same type of challenges and problems. The study areas on the Sardinian side were Passo Asinelli pass, Porto della Madonna harbor and Cala Portese cove. For each site two stations were identified, a monitoring and a control one. The type of meadow, its morphological and structural characteristics (matte, rocks, degree of fragmentation, height of matte, etc.) and the possible presence of marks/signs caused by the dropping of anchors were assessed in selected areas. The compactness of the matte, estimated using a penetrometer, the percentage of seabed covered by the plant and density were assessed by direct method by divers. The results for the leaf density show the meadows are in regression; however, there are better conditions in Porto Madonna where the monitoring and control stations show density near to normal values. Particularly low values were measured in Passo Asinelli where, despite prohibitions, the high pressure of tourism generates stress to the plant formation. The leaf standing crop, the leaf area index and measures penetrometric lead to conclusions almost similar indicating best ecological conditions in Porto Madonna, confirming previous results. The indicators used show an ecological status of lesser quality for the sites of both Passo Asinelli and, more visible, of Cala Portese. Porto Madonna, on the other hand, shows values equal to the minimum requirements for a meadow surface.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1016/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'DADU - Dipartimento di Architettura Urbanistica e Design, Sassari University', u'Parco Nazionale Arcipelago di La Maddalena']]
[u'Quantization of mental stress using various physiological markers', ['Apoorvagiri,', 'Mandya Sannegowda Nagananda'], u'2015-04-30', u'The aim of this study is to quantize mental stress by integrating different physiological markers like reaction time, photoplethysmograph (PPG), heart rate variability (HRV) and subjective markers like questionnaire. The study included 10 subjects of age between 22 and 26 years. Study materials include the results of PSS questionnaire, simple reaction time, PPG data, HRV data during a stress inducing stroop test. The study suggests that mental stress can be quantized when stress is induced acquisitively and more accurate quantification of stress can be achieved by integrating many physiological parameters.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/777/', ['Bioengineering', 'Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Biomedical Signal Processing and Instrumentation, RV College of Engineering', u'Department of Instrumentation and Technology, RV College of Engineering']]
[u'Aging and longevity science: where are we in 2015?', ['Alfred P Yoon', 'Christie P Yoon', 'Stephen Daane'], u'2015-04-29', u'Aging has been defined as the loss of function and ability to interact with the environment. The social perception of aging involves the inability to live independently due to loss of mobility, cognition, and sensory functions. Aging is a risk factor for pathology including cancer, cardiovascular disease, metabolic disease, and neurodegenerative disease. Due to these accompanying conditions, the esteem and respect once regarded for old age has been replaced by efforts to postpone, stop, or even reverse the aging process. Anti-aging medicine has gained popularity through media and marketing as companies have promoted an approach to delaying the side effects of aging through diet, exercise, supplements and hormonal therapy. The following is a comprehensive review of current research into potential strategies for anti-aging therapy and longevity, supported by current scientific and clinical research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1015/', ['Bioengineering', 'Geriatrics', 'Nutrition', 'Pharmacology'], [u'David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA', u'University of California, Irvine', u'Private Practice Plastic Surgery & Anti-Aging']]
[u'Effect of dredging activities on the health status of Posidonia oceanica meadows along the north Latium coast (Tyrrhenian Sea)', ['Valentina Gnisci', 'Simone Bonamano', 'Carla Micheli', 'Selvaggia Cognetti de Martiis', 'Viviana Piermattei', 'Marco Marcelli'], u'2015-04-27', u'Coastal areas are characterized by several disturbances due to the presence of numerous anthropic activities that may alter the health status and ecological functioning of Posidonia oceanica meadows. The reduction of seawater transparency and the increase of sedimentation rate are among the main causes of their regression. This work is focused on the northern Latium coast (Central Tyrrhenian Sea), from Marina di Tarquinia to Santa Severa. Over time, alteration of river run-off (change in land use, captation along rivers, etc.) and dredging activities carried out within the Civitavecchia harbour, have led to the dispersion of a large amount of fine materials in the marine environment. In this area, four Sites of Community Importance were identified according to the Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC), due to the presence of P. oceanica beds. Meadows are fragmented and discontinuous also because the high geomorphological heterogeneity. The aim of this work has been to evaluate the effects of the reduction of seawater transparency and the alteration of sedimentation rate on the meadows due to dredging activities. The evaluation of meadows health status from 2002 to 2013 was performed by structural (shoot density and coverage) and functional (leaf biometry) standard descriptors analysis. In the same period, the water transparency and the sedimentation rate have been analysed using numerical models able to distinguish between river and dredging contributions. The simulations of dredged sediments transport have highlighted as the plume is transported mainly to the north, with high concentration values near the shoreline; for this reason the evaluations of shoot density of P. oceanica meadows located near the harbour and far from the coast have not shown a decrease over the years. In the meadow further north, where the concentration of dredged suspended materials is decreasing, the reduction in shoot number is mainly due to the sediment plumes of the Marta and Mignone rivers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1011/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science', 'Computational Science'], [u'Laboratory of Experimental Oceanography and Marine Ecology, Department of Biological and Ecological Sciences (DEB), Tuscia University', u'Laboratory of Biomass and Bio-energies,Research Centre Casaccia, ENEA Italian National Agency for New technologies, Energies and Sustainable Economic Development']]
[u'An elaborate data set on human gait and the effect of mechanical perturbations', ['Jason K Moore', 'Sandra K. Hnat', 'Antonie J. van den Bogert'], u'2015-04-29', u'Here we share a rich gait data set collected from fifteen subjects walking at three speeds on an instrumented treadmill. Each trial consists of 120 seconds of normal walking and 480 seconds of walking while being longitudinally perturbed during each stance phase with pseudo-random fluctuations in the speed of the treadmill belt. A total of approximately 1.5 hours of normal walking (>5000 gait cycles) and 6 hours of perturbed walking (>20,000 gait cycles) is included in the data set. We provide full body marker trajectories and ground reaction loads in addition to a presentation of processed data that includes gait events, 2D joint angles, angular rates, and joint torques along with the open source software used for the computations. The protocol is described in detail and supported with additional elaborate meta data for each trial. This data can likely be useful for validating or generating mathematical models that are capable of simulating normal periodic gait and non-periodic, perturbed gaits.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/700/', ['Bioengineering', 'Kinesiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Mechanical Engineering, Cleveland State University']]
[u'Invasion of an invader: a case study from the Suez Channel', ['Yasser Geneid', 'Amgad El Shaffai'], u'2015-04-28', u'After the year 1869, a major change in the Mediterranean marine ecosystem occurred. A pathway called Suez Canal was created allowing the passage of alien invasive species from the Red Sea to the Mediterranean, which is currently harboring over 900 introduced marine species. About 54% of these established non-native species reached through the Suez Canal. Whilst most of the studies dealing with marine invasive species focused on the Mediterranean, very few were done in the Suez Canal itself. The goal of this study is to review the distribution and current status of two invasive marine plants in the Suez Canal, specifically the Bitter Lakes area. This area was selected because of its special environmental conditions and its importance as a major fishing ground in the entire canal. Visual observations of the marine vegetation in the study sites were carried out starting year 2001.  Halophila stipulacea  , a tropical seagrass distributed along the coasts of the western Indian Ocean and the Red Sea, has migrated and is widely found around the Mediterranean. It was recorded in the Suez Canal by the Cambridge Expedition in 1924 and is known to occur in the shallow sandy-muddy bottom areas along its western coast. Since 2000, different studies along the Bitter Lakes have shown total disappearance of seagrass meadows caused by another invader that have replaced the seagrass plants and reached a percentage cover of nearly 100% in some of the studied sites. A new intruder was the green seaweed  Caulerpa prolifera, a Mediterranean algal species that was recorded in the Gulf of Suez in 1984, among few species migrated from the Mediterranean to the Red Sea. It has rapidly colonized different locations in the Suez Canal replacing  H. stipulacea  meadows. However, in 2004, a dramatic change took place in the study area where  C. prolifera  began diminishing allowing the previously found  H. stipulacea  to inhabit the seafloor. While salinity reduction from hypersaline conditions \u2013 due to growing of coastal communities along the Bitter Lakes with more fresh water discharge \u2013 may cause the expansion of  C. prolifera  in the study area, the reasons why it declined and disappeared are still unclear.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1014/', ['Marine Biology'], [u'Marine Environment Sector, National Institute of Oceanography and Fisheries', u'Nature Conservation Sector, Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency']]
[u'Signals from real-world falls', ['Jochen Klenk', 'Luca Palmerini', 'Alan K Bourke', 'Lars Schwickert', 'Clemens Becker'], u'2015-04-27', u'Objective measurement of real-world fall events by using body-worn sensor devices can improve the understanding of falls in older people and enable new technology to prevent, predict, and automatically recognize falls. However, relative to the required recording time, these events are rare and hence challenging to capture. Therefore, the FARSEEING (FAll Repository for the design of Smart and sElf-adapaive Environments prolonging INdependent livinG) consortium and associated partners established a meta-database of signals from real-world falls. Until the end of 2014, 397 falls were measured and reported. This includes falls data from several settings and disease groups, mainly geriatric rehabilitation, Parkinson\u2019s disease, cerebellar and sensory ataxia. Seventy-five per cent of the falls were measured with a sampling rate of 100 Hz with devices including at least accelerometers and gyroscopes. To date more than 100 of these real-world falls have been validated and finally processed for data analyses. The observed signal patterns showed a high heterogeneity and differed considerably from those of simulated falls. Preliminary analyses of the available real-world falls data with two different fall-detection approaches using wavelets as well as temporal and mechanical thresholds considerably improved the detection performance. The FARSEEING consortium will continue to increase the number of measured real-world falls in the meta-database beyond the end of the project. External users can request data access on the FARSEEING website.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1013/', ['Geriatrics'], [u'Department of Clinical Gerontology and Rehabilitation, Institute of Epidemiology and Medical Biometry - Ulm University', u'Department of Electrical, Electronic, and Information Engineering, University of Bologna', u'Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Norwegian University of Science and Technology', u'Department of Clinical Gerontology and Rehabilitation, Robert-Bosch-Hospital']]
[u'A new methodology for monitoring P. oceanica meadows in Tavolara Punta Coda Cavallo MPA using GIS', ['Pieraugusto Panzalis', 'Andrea Deiana', 'Sarah Caronni', 'Augusto Navone'], u'2015-04-27', u"Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are acknowledged globally as effective tools for the protection and management of the marine environment; however, to get effective results it is necessary to set up a proper and continuous mapping of the marine territory, in order to gain detailed knowledge of its different aspects. Therefore, the implementation and maintenance of a modern GIS (Geographic Information System) has become an indispensable task for the MPA of Tavolara - Punta Coda Cavallo to collect, aggregate, classify, and track the conducted mapping activities.\nBetween 2011 and 2012 the sea bottom of the MPA was surveyed using different methods: by means of a multi-beam echo sounder and of a side scan sonar, as well as conducting fast scientific scuba divings with re-breathers and underwater position system technologies. High resolution geodatasets, characterized by a significantly high quality in representing and describing the sea bottom and its habitats, were produced in both feature (scale up to 1:1.250) and raster formats (up to 30cm/pixel for sonar images and 1m/pixel for bathymetry) and they currently constitute the basis of the MPA's GIS, including its 3D applications and its web map services for desktop and mobile devices (iPhone & Android).\nTo update the above described geodatasets during time, acquiring new data on the conservation targets considered in monitoring activities, among which the status of P. oceanica meadows is of the most important ones, a long term mapping plan was realized on the basis of an innovative methodology elaborated by the MPA considering both the wideness of the area and the limited funds available at present. The whole MPA was divided in territorial units by means of a regular grid of square cells having a 100m side with the logic of starting the mapping activities from the mainly important areas and then to spread the surveys up to fill the whole mosaic. All the new data acquired with this methodology could then be mixed, compared and indexed within the same cell and/or in the many already available geodatases, starting from those dated 2006 having a regular grid with square cells of 500m per side.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1012/', ['Conservation Biology'], [u'Environmental Conservation office, MPA Tavolara Punta Coda Cavalli', u'GIS office, MPA Tavolara Punta Coda Cavalli', u'Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Pavia']]
[u'Prior CT imaging history for patients who undergo PAN CT for acute traumatic injury', ['Jeremy Kenter', 'Osbert Blow', 'Scott P Krall', 'Albert L Gest', 'Cynthia Smith', 'Peter Richman'], u'2015-04-27', u'OBJECTIVE: A single PAN scan may provide more radiation to a patient than is felt to be safe within a one-year period. Our objective was to determine how many patients admitted to the trauma service following a PAN scan had prior CT imaging within our six-hospital system. METHODS: We performed a secondary analysis of a prospectively collected trauma registry. The study was based at a level-two trauma center and five affiliated hospitals, which comprise 70.6% of all Emergency Department visits within a twelve county region of southern Texas. Electronic medical records were reviewed dating from the point of trauma evaluation back to December 5, 2005 to determine evidence of prior CT imaging. RESULTS: There were 867 patients were admitted to the trauma service between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012. 460 (53%) received a PAN scan and were included in the study group. The mean age of the study group was 37.7 +/- 1.54 years old, 24.8% were female, and the mean ISS score was 13.4 +/- 1.07. The most common mechanism of injury was motor vehicle collision (47%). 65 (14%; 95% CI = 11-18%) of the patients had at least one prior CT. The most common prior studies performed were: CT head (29%; 19-42%), CT Face (29%; 19-42%) and CT Abdomen and Pelvis (18%; 11-30%). CONCLUSION: Within our trauma registry, 14% of patients had prior CT imaging within our hospital system before their traumatic event and PAN scan.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1010/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Public Health', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Emergency Medicine, CHRISTUS Spohn/Texas A&M College of Medicine', u'Department of Acute Care Surgery, Trauma & Surgical Critical Care, CHRISTUS Spohn Hospital Corpus Christi--Memorial']]
[u'Turtle assemblages of the Jehol Biota in Northeast China', ['Chang-Fu Zhou', 'Marton Rabi'], u'2015-04-26', u'Background. Cryptodires represent the largest group of living turtles (Testudines) with a wide range of habitat preferences from terrestrial through freshwater to marine. Their origin and early evolution can be traced back to the extinct pancryptodires of the Middle to Late Jurassic and particularly to the Early Cretaceous of East Asia. In the last two decades, plenty of turtle fossils have been discovered in the Jehol Biota of Northeast China but very few of them have been described. Until now, only four taxa have been reported from western Liaoning and adjacent areas including Manchurochelys manchoukuoensis; Ordosemys liaoxiensis; Liaochelys jianchangensis; and the soft-shelled turtle Perochelys lamadongensis. Here we recognize that the Jehol Biota opens an important window into the origin and early evolution of Cryptodiran turtles. Results. Based on our preliminary study, two more taxa can be added to this list, implying a high diversity of the turtle assemblage in these areas. The first is from the Yixian Formation of Ningcheng, Inner Mongolia and diagnostic by an unusual combination of features: midline contact of prefrontals; elongated supraoccipital crest; fourth cervical vertebra biconvex; preneural absent; eight neurals; two subequal suprapygals; pygal present; third costals with parallel anterior and posterior sides; narrow distal ends of posterior costals; closed costoperipheral, lateral and central plastral fontanelles. The second taxon is from the Jiufotang Formation of Lingyuan, western Liaoning and distinct with its hyperphalangy in pedal digit V. Phylogenetic analysis places the first taxon as the basal most member of Sinemydidae that in turn furthermore includes L. jianchangensis and Ordosemys leios (which are sister taxa) and a clade consisting of M. manchoukuoensis, Dracochelys bicuspis and Sinemys spp. Discussion. The new phylogeny confutes recent tentative hypotheses that consider Sinemyididae and closely allied taxa as stem-turtles or stem-chelonioid sea-turtles. Instead, they populate the diverse stem-lineage of Cryptodira together with other Jurassic and Cretaceous Asian and North American taxa including at least xinjiangchelyids, Judithemys sukhanovi and Kirgizemys spp. The addition of two more taxa further increases the taxonomic diversity of the turtle assemblages in the Jehol Biota. Moreover, turtles appear to show a complex paleobiogeographical and stratigraphic distribution in the area with some taxa that appears to be endemic for local basins. Although these patterns are poorly documented at present, they hold the potential for a new biostratigraphic tool for correlating faunas and sedimentary basins within the Jehol Biota. Funding statement. Funded in part by the Public Science and Technology Research Funds Projects of Land and Resources ( 201311120) and Liaoning BaiQianWan Talents Program ( 2014Q110)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1009/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Paleontological Institute, Shenyang Normal University', u'Institut  f\xfcr Geowissenschaften, University of T\xfcbingen', u'Department of  Paleontology & MTA-ELTE Lend\xfclet Dinosaur Research Group, E\xf6tv\xf6s Lor\xe1nd University']]
[u'Neuroanatomy of the Upper Cretaceous turtle Chedighaii hutchisoni Gaffney, Tong & Meylan, 2006 (Pleurodira, Bothremydidae)', ['Fernanda Deantoni'], u'2015-04-26', u'Background. While Computed Tomography scanning is a powerful non-invasive tool for the study of paleoneurology, the neuroanatomy of turtles remains unexplored in comparison to other higher taxa. I herein present data on the morphology of intracranial structures of Chedighaii hutchisoni based on CT scan generated endocasts. Methods. The CT scan of C. hutchisoni (KUVP 14765, holotype) was virtually manipulated using software Mimics (Materialise) v.10.01, with manual correction and preparation of internal structures in coronal view. Results. The endocast presents poorly demarcated flexures and cartilaginous rider, and cerebral hemisphere region larger than medulla. The abducens nerve (CNVI) canal is slightly curved and thinner than the internal carotid canal (cci). The semicircular canals are approximately the same caliber as the cci. The anterior (csa) and posterior (csp) semicircular canals form an angle of 80\xb0 and are equally elevated. The facial nerve (CNVII) canal is short and extends posterolaterally into the prootic; the junction with the cci happens at mid-length of the CNVII canal. One ramus of the statoacustic nerve (CNVIII) is visible. In the ophistotic there is one paired foramina for the glossopharyngeal nerve (CNIX). Discussion. The endocast of C. hutchisoni is in many aspects similar to the other bothremydids Galianemys whitei and G. emringeri, with some particularities. The canal of CNVI shows an intermediate condition between G. whitei (shorter, thinner than cci and rounded, handle-shaped) and G. emringeri (longer, thicker than cci and almost rectilinear). The semicircular canals are slightly thicker than in other studied pelomedusoids and chelids (e.g. Chelus fimbriatus and Elseya dentata), and the bony labyrinth is similar to that of G. emringeri, although in both Galianemys species the csa is more elevated than the csp in the common crus. The angle between csa and csp is also similar to G. emringeri and other pelomedusoids such as Podocnemis unifilis, P. expansa, Caninemys tridentata and Peltocephalus dumerillianus. C. hutchisoni presents one paired foramina for CNIX, not visible in both Galianemys species. Compared to an endocast of C. barberi (originally misidentified as Bothremys sp.), C. hutchisoni presents greater cerebrum/medulla width proportion, the cci of C. barberi is thicker and enters the sella turcica in a acuter angle, and CNVI is visible in ventral view in C. barberi, whereas in C. hutchisoni it hides beneath the cci. Further studies will help elucidate the variation of intracranial structures in Bothremydidade and in the remaining pleurodires families.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1008/', ['Neuroscience', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Departamento de Geologia e Paleontologia, Museu Nacional - Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'benchNGS : An approach to benchmark short reads alignment tools', ['Farzana Rahman', 'Mehedi Hassan', 'Alona Kryshchenko', 'Inna Dubchak', 'Tatiana V Tatarinova', 'Nikolai Nickolai Alexandrov'], u'2015-04-25', u'In the last decade a number of algorithms and associated software were developed to align next generation sequencing (NGS) reads to relevant reference genomes. The results of these programs may vary significantly, especially when the NGS reads are contain mutations not found in the reference genome. Yet there is no standard way to compare these programs and assess their biological relevance. We propose a benchmark to assess accuracy of the short reads mapping based on the pre-computed global alignment of closely related genome sequences. In this paper we outline the method and also present a short report of an experiment performed on five popular alignment tools .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1007/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'University of South Wales', u'School of Computing and Mathematics, University of South Wales', u"Department of Infectious Diseases, Children's Hospital Los Angeles", u'Joint Genome Institute', u"Keck Medical School, Children's Hospital Los Angeles", u'International Rice Research Institute']]
[u'Forever young... Colonization pattern of epibionts on Posidonia oceanica artificial leaves in relation to ocean acidification', ['Maria Cristina Gambi', 'Emanuela Di Meglio', 'Luigia Donnarumma'], u'2015-04-25', u'Ocean acidification (OA) is today considered one of the most pervasive stressors for marine biota at the level of species, communities and ecosystems. Naturally acidified systems, such as the CO2 vents, represent suitable laboratories to study the effects of OA on benthic organisms. An analysis of the colonization pattern of epibionts settled on artificial leaves (mimics) of Posidonia oceanica in relation to ocean acidification at the shallow CO2 vents off the island of Ischia, is here presented. Mimics of Posidonia oceanica artificial leaves (dark green flexible PVC stripes 1 cm wide x 36 cm long) were placed from September 2009 to September 2010 along a gradient of OA of the Ischia vent\u2019s system at six stations (3 on the south and 3 on the north side of the study area), located at extreme low pH (mean pH 7.5), low pH (7.8), and control, normal pH conditions (8.12). Six artificial leaves per station were collected every three months and analysed for taxa identification and estimates of coverage (algae and sessile clonal invertebrates) and number of individuals (not clonal taxa). Patterns of colonization in control stations showed a progressive increase in time in coverage values of many organisms, mainly calcifying forms as coralline algae, which represent the dominant taxon, spirorbids and bryozoans. Colonization of artificial leaves located in low pH stations followed a similar temporal pattern as control conditions, but with lower coverage and higher patchiness of calcareous forms at 12 months of colonization. Epibionts in extreme low pH conditions were dominated by filamentous green/brown algae, with the occurrence of a few coralline algae, spirorbids and bryozoans, especially in the early months of colonization (3 and 6 months). Colonization at 9 and 12 months showed the disappearance of even these rare calcareous organisms and occurrence only of filamentous turf and fleshy algae, with a very simplified epibiont assemblage, remaining at an early, young colonization stage. These results indicate a strong selection of calcareous forms and the lack of successional stages in extreme low pH conditions, while the few calcifiers settled at short exposure time (3-6 months) do not seem to survive at longer exposure to critical values of OA.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1006/', ['Ecology'], [u'Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'Department of Science and Technology, University of Naples Parthenope']]
[u'Polychaetes associated with Posidonia oceanica meadows along a gradient of ocean acidification at a CO2 vent system (Ischia, Italy)', ['Maria Cristina Gambi', 'Erica Keppel', 'Rosanna Guglielmo', 'Adriana Giangrande', 'Samantha L. Garrard'], u'2015-04-25', u'Polychaetes represent one of the most diversified and abundant taxa associated with seagrass meadows. These organisms show various feeding habits at different levels of the complex seagrass food web, representing suitable bioindicators of meadow structure and environmental status and disturbances. Ocean acidification (OA) is today considered one of the most pervasive stressors for marine biota at the level of species, communities and ecosystems. Naturally acidified systems, such as CO2 vents, represent suitable natural laboratories to study the effects of OA on benthic organisms. An analysis of polychaetes associated with Posidonia oceanica meadows located around shallow CO2 vents off the island of Ischia, is presented here. Polychaetes were collected in November 2011 with an air-lift sampler (40x40 cm; 4 replicates per station) along a gradient of OA at the Castello\u2019s vent system at six stations (3 on the south and 3 on the north side), ranging from extreme low pH conditions (mean pH 7.5 occurring only on the south side) to control, normal pH conditions (8.12); a further control station was considered, 600 m from the Castello in similar environmental conditions and ambient pH (S. Anna meadow). A total of 99 taxa and about 4200 individual polychaetes were collected. Taxa richness showed higher values in the acidified stations, especially on the south side; similarly abundances were from two- to four-fold higher under low and extreme low pH conditions, in respect to control ones, due to relatively few dominant taxa. These are represented by Amphiglena mediterranea, Syllis gerlachi, S. prolifera, Exogone dispar, Sphaerosyllis pirifera, Polyophthalmus pictus and Kefersteinia cirrata. Multivariate analysis showed a separation between control and low pH assemblages and a separation between low pH and the extreme low pH site on the south side. Control stations showed higher variability among replicates, while acidified stations, especially those under extreme low pH conditions, showed a more homogeneous assemblage structure. These results demonstrate that many species of polychaetes are robust to OA, however, the high seagrass shoot density, occurring at acidified stations, may buffer the negative effect of this stressor on the biota, and explain both the high diversity and abundance observed there.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1005/', ['Ecology'], [u'Stazione Zoologica Anton Dohrn', u'Institute of Marine Sciences (ISMAR), Italian National Research Council (CNR)', u'Smithsonian Environmental Research Center (SERC), Smithsonian Institution', u'DiSTEBA, University of Salento']]
[u'Sciences of walking: a history of locomotion research', ['Andreas Mayer'], u'2015-04-24', u'Most people consider walking to be a natural and self-evident activity of everyday life. However, this familiarity turns out to be fragile in the face of the question "Do you know how you walk?" The mechanism of walking has puzzled scientists, doctors and writers for a long time. In my book Wissenschaft vom Gehen (Fischer, 2013), I have tried to provide a historical account of those forms of investigations of the human gait, some of the famous, others marginal and largely forgotten, that emerged at the intersection of a variety of disciplines (physiology, neurology, orthopedic surgery, anthropology, psychiatry) since the late 18th century. In my paper, I retrace \u2013 in five steps \u2013 the historical career of the sciences of walking throughout the 19th century.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1004/', ['Anthropology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Neurology', 'Orthopedics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Centre Alexandre Koyr\xe9, Histoire des Sciences et des Techniques, Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales / CNRS']]
[u'Oxygen transport and release of adenosine triphosphate in micro-channels', ['Terry Moschandreou'], u'2015-04-24', u'The governing nonlinear steady equations for oxygen transport in a microfluidic channel are solved analytically. The Lagrange inversion theorem is used which admits complete integrable solutions in the channel. Considering a cell-rich and cell free region with RBCs and blood plasma, we obtain results showing clearly that there is a significant decrease in oxygen tension in the vicinity of an oxygen permeable membrane placed on the upper channel/tube wall and to the right side of it in the downstream field. The purpose of the membrane is to cause a rapid change in oxygen saturation as RBC\u2019s flow through channel/tube. To the right of the membrane downstream the greatest amount of ATP is released. The method of solution is compared to numerical results. The analytical results obtained could prove useful for the corresponding time dependent problem in future studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1003/', ['Biophysics', 'Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Hematology'], [u'Department of Applied Mathematics, Western University']]
[u'Genotoxic evaluation of Mexican welders occupationally exposed to welding-fumes using the micronucleus test on exfoliated oral mucosa cells: a cross-sectional, case-control study', ['Ana C. Jara-Ettinger', 'Juan C. Lopez-Tavera', 'Guadalupe Zavala-Cerna', 'Olivia Torres-Bugarin'], u'2015-04-24', u'Background: An estimated of 800,000 people worldwide are occupationally exposed to welding-fumes. Previous studies show that the exposure to such fumes is associated with damage to genetic material and increased cancer risk. In this study, we evaluate the genotoxic effect of welding-fumes using the Micronucleus Test on oral mucosa cells of Mexican welders. Material and Methods: We conducted a cross-sectional, matched case-control study of n = 66 (33 exposed welders, and 33 healthy controls). Buccal mucosa smears were collected and stained with acridine orange, observed under 100x optical amplification with a fluorescence lamp, and a single-blinded observer counted the number of micronuclei and other nuclear abnormalities per 2000 observed cells. We compared the frequencies of micronuclei and other nuclear abnormalities, and fitted generalised linear models to investigate the interactions between nuclear abnormalities and the exposure to welding-fumes, while controlling for smoking and age. Results: Binucleated cells and condensed-chromatin cells showed statistically significant differences between cases and controls. The frequency of micronuclei and the rest of nuclear abnormalities (lobed-nuclei, pyknosis, karyolysis, and karyorrhexis) did not differ significantly between the groups. After adjusting for smoking, the regression results showed that the occurrence of binucleated cells could be predicted by the exposure to welding-fumes plus the presence of tobacco consumption; for the condensed-chromatin cells, our model showed that the exposure to welding-fumes is the only reliable predictor. Conclusions:  Our findings suggest that Mexican welders who are occupationally exposed to welding-fumes have increased counts of binucleated and condensed-chromatin cells. Nevertheless, the frequencies of micronuclei and the rest of nuclear abnormalities did not differ between cases and controls. Further studies, should shed more light on this subject.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/834/', ['Toxicology'], [u'Faculty of Medicine, Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Guadalajara']]
[u'Flowering, reproductive behaviors and their effects on grain yields of newly bred single cross hybrids of yellow maize (Zea mays L.) in winter in subtropical Nepalese Himalayan foot plain', ['Nav Raj Adhikari', 'Surya Kant Ghimire', 'Shrawan Kumar Sah', 'Keshab Babu Koirala'], u'2015-04-23', u'Introduction: All the plants of a maize population or hybrid PP (plant population) do not dehisce anthers and do not emerge silk simultaneously. Generally, male flowering or anther dehiscence (anthesis) is leading and female flowering (silk emergence or silking) is lagging under both optimum and stressful environment. Enough and timely pollen availability is indispensable when silks come out of maize ears for largest number of kernel set. So; study of flowering and reproductive behavior of newly bred maize hybrids are indispensable to confirm high grain yielding hybrid with traits of synchrony in anthesis and silking, coming out of all silks and enough pollen availability in short duration. Materials and methods: Flowering and reproductive behaviors of fifteen newly bred single cross hybrids of yellow maize have been examined growing them in an RCBD trial planting their seeds on October 3, 2012 to expose flowering to the natural winter in subtropical foot plain of Himalaya. For flowering behavior; emergence of tassel, anthesis, silking, silk senescence, tassel-anthesis interval, anthesis-silking interval, silking-silk senescence interval of the hybrids have been examined dissecting the PP into four equal parts (percent) as the first earliest, second earliest, third earliest and terminal 25% of the hybrid PP denominated as 25, 50, 75 and 100% respectively of the each of the fifteen hybrids. So, whether third earliest 25% and terminal 25% silk emerging PP of each of the hybrids (SILK75 and SILK100%) respectively received enough pollen from the PP of the same hybrid can be determined through ASI 75 and ASI 100 of the hybrid PP. Results and discussion: Among some polynomial regression equations (PREs) discovered based on floral traits, a grain yield estimating PRE (t ha-1) Y = - 11922 + 507.3*(TSS25)1 - 7.183*(TSS25)2 + 0.03387*(TSS25)3 with r2 value 66% has been discovered from days taken for TSS25. Similarly, high r2 bearing PREs were from days for anthesis and silking. PREs with the lowest r2 were for the days required for the silk senescence (S SEN). Reasons of the low r2 are: the observation of silk browning or withering could not be precise for naked eye since the silks looked fresh longer in high humidity, well-irrigated state, low temperature, low sun-shine and foggy or cloudy day although the silks lost receptivity earlier in the winter. In addition, interval duration from SILK INI to S SEN cannot be the duration of silk receptivity in the winter of subtropical Nepalese Himalayan foot plain. For reproductive behavior; number of functional egg cells that became successful zygotes to pull assimilates for complete kernel development can reflect aroma about reproductive strength (RS) of the hybrid. Accordingly, hybrids 8 and 5 have been found of the highest RS.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/897/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Plant Breeding, Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science, Tribhuvan University', u'Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'Department of Agronomy, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'National Maize Research Program (NMRP), Nepal Agriculture Research Council (NARC)']]
[u'Rain forests and movement ecology of neotropical primates', ['Derek S Madden', 'Erinn Madden', 'Sierra Madden'], u'2015-04-23', u'Movement ecology of arboreal monkeys in Central America involves the action of diverse body postures to address challenges in rain forests, where scattered resources and complex habitat structure demand that a primate frequently employ extreme physical finesse to survive. What is not clearly understood about this area of study is the connection between primate body postures as responses to specific types of forest architecture and how forest structure may influence a monkey\u2019s continued capacity for wide-ranging mobility over time. We studied tree canopy structure and branch connectivity associated with the movement ecology of black-handed spider monkeys (Ateles geoffroyi), mantled howling monkeys (Alouatta palliata), Geoffroy\u2019s tamarins (Saguinus geoffroyi), and white-faced capuchins (Cebus capucinus) in Panama and Costa Rica. Laboratory study of primate cadaver pelvises was done at UC Davis, Oregon Osteology Lab, and the Denver Museum. Rain forests appear to induce wide-ranging leg movements in wild neotropical monkeys that were not observed in the same species of monkeys inhabiting artificial environments. We also found that a wild primate employs frequent wide-ranging leg movement that result in widely dispersed contacts between the articulating surfaces within the hip, potentially maintaining cartilage and contributing to the longevity of that joint. Thus, a connection may exist between rain forests, the leg action of wild monkeys, and the continued capacity to move over time in this group of long-lived animals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1002/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biology, Modesto Junior College', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute', u'Department of Biology, University of California, Davis']]
[u'An engineered bacterium auxotrophic for an unnatural amino acid: a novel biological containment system', ['Yusuke Kato'], u'2015-04-22', u'Biological containment is a genetic technique to program dangerous organisms to grow only in the laboratory and to die in the natural environment. Auxotropy for a substance not found in the natural environment is an ideal biological containment. Here, we constructed an Escherichia coli strain that cannot survive in the absence of the unnatural amino acid 3-iodo-L-tyrosine. This synthetic auxotrophy was achieved by conditional production of the antidote protein against the highly toxic enzyme colicin E3. An amber stop codon was inserted in the antidote gene. The translation of the antidote mRNA was controlled by a translational switch using amber-specific 3-iodo-L-tyrosine incorporation. The antidote is synthesized only when 3-iodo-L-tyrosine is present in the culture medium. The viability of this strain rapidly decreased with less than a 1 h half-life after removal of 3-iodo-L-tyrosine, suggesting that the decay of the antidote causes the host killing by activated colicin E3 in the absence of this unnatural amino acid. This containment system can be constructed by only plasmid introduction without genome editing, suggesting that this system may be applicable to other microbes carrying toxin-antidote systems similar to that of colicin E3.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1001/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Genetically Modified Organism Research Center, National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences']]
[u'Strong longitudinal variation in wing aspect ratio of a damselfly, Calopteryx maculata (Odonata: Zygoptera)', ['Christopher Hassall'], u'2015-04-21', u'Geographical patterns in body size have been described across a wide range of species, leading to the development of a series of fundamental biological rules. However, shape variables are less well-described despite having substantial consequences for organismal performance. Wing aspect ratio (AR) has been proposed as a key shape parameter that determines function in flying animals, with high AR corresponding to longer, thinner wings that promote high manoeuvrability, low speed flight, and low AR corresponding to shorter, broader wings that promote high efficiency long distance flight. From this principle it might be predicted that populations at range edges would exhibit low AR wings. I test this hypothesis using the riverine damselfly, Calopteryx maculata, sampled from 34 sites across its range margin in North America. Nine hundred and seven male specimens were captured from across the 34 sites (mean=26.7 \xb12.9 SE per site), dissected and measured to quantify the area and length of all four wings. Geometric morphometrics were employed to investigate geographical variation in wing shape. The majority of variation in wing shape involved changes in wing aspect ratio, confirmed independently by geometric morphometrics and wing measurements. There was a weak positive relationship between wing aspect ratio and temperature, in line with work on other insects. However, there was a strong longitudinal pattern in which western populations exhibited lower wing aspect ratio. This longitudinal pattern may be related to increasing variability in precipitation from east to west in North America. I discuss my findings in light of research of the functional ecology of wing shape across vertebrate and invertebrate taxa', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/998/', ['Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'School of Biology, University of Leeds']]
[u'Using life history trade-offs to understand core-transient structuring of a small mammal community', ['Sarah R Supp', 'David N. Koons', 'S. K. Morgan Ernest'], u'2015-04-21', u'An emerging conceptual framework suggests that communities are composed of two main groups of species through time: core species that are temporally persistent, and transient species that are temporally intermittent. Core and transient species have been shown to differ in spatiotemporal turnover, diversity patterns, and importantly, survival strategies targeted at local vs. regional habitat use. While the core-transient framework has typically been a site-specific designation for species, we suggest that if core and transient species have local vs. regional survival strategies across sites, and consistently differ in population-level spatial structure and gene flow, they may also exhibit different life-history strategies. Specifically, core species should display relatively low movement rates, low reproductive effort, high ecological specialization and high survival rates compared to transient species, which may display a wider range of traits given that transience may result from source-sink dynamics or from the ability to emigrate readily in a nomadic fashion. We present results from 21 years of capture-mark-recapture data in a diverse rodent community, evaluating the linkages between temporal persistence, local abundance, and trade-offs among life-history traits. Core species at our site conservatively supported our hypotheses, differing in ecological specialization, survival and movement probabilities, and reproductive effort relative to transient species. Transient species exhibited a wider range of characteristics, which likely stems from the multiple processes generating transience in local communities, such as source-sink dynamics at larger regional scales or nomadic life history strategies. We suggest that trait associations among core-transient species may be similar in other systems and warrants further study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/629/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology'], [u'School of Biology and Ecology, University of Maine', u'Department of Biology and the Ecology Center, Utah State University', u'Department of Wildland Resources and the Ecology Center, Utah State University']]
[u'Temperature drives asymmetric competition between alien and indigenous freshwater snails (Physa acuta vs. Physa fontinalis)', ['Denise Fruh', 'Peter Haase', 'Stefan Stoll'], u'2015-04-21', u'Biological invasion represent one of the major threats to global biodiversity as alien species often displace indigenous species. However, knowledge of the mechanisms behind such displacements and the driving factors of the competitive superiority of the alien species still remain rare. In our study we combined analysis of field data and laboratory experiments examining species interactions, to investigate the impact of temperature in the case of the alien freshwater snail Physa acuta that is held responsible for the decline of indigenous snail Physa fontinalis in Europe. From field data, we identified higher temperature as the most important difference between sites populated by alien P. acuta and those where indigenous P. fontinalis occurred. Results of the species interaction experiment conducted at 15, 20, and 25\xb0C confirmed the hypothesis that the competitive superiority of P. acuta over P. fontinalis increases at warmer temperatures. In single species treatments, increasing temperature stimulated both species to grow faster and reach greater shell heights. Coexistence treatments revealed an asymmetric competitive interaction between the two snail species. In both species, the density of conspecifics did not affect snail growth; however, density of heterospecifics affected the growth. At 15\xb0C, the presence of heterospecifics stimulated the growth of both species, while at higher temperatures the presence of heterospecifics stimulated the growth in P. acuta, but inhibited in P. fontinalis. Our study shows that temperature can be a powerful driver of the outcomes of alien and indigenous species\u2019 competition by driving asymmetric interaction. Further our results point up that the environmental context cannot be disregarded when investigating the interaction between alien and indigenous species, and predict alien species success and impact.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/997/', ['Ecology'], [u'River Ecology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute and Natural History Museum', u'North Rhine-Westphalia State Agency for Nature, Environment and Consumer Protection (LANUV)']]
[u'The Shake Stick', ['Alex Wilson', 'Abram Hindle'], u'2015-04-21', u'We present a new embedded instrument, with discussion on the challenges of developping embedded instruments, and the practice and theory of NIME evaluation and design. The Shake Stick is a Raspberry Pi-based embedded instrument using SuperCollider for granular synthesis. In our analysis and design, we explore the MINUET design framework, dimension space analysis for inter-instrument comparison, and learning curves. Furthermore, we discuss lessons learned from using the instrument in group improvisation, as well as challenges and prospects for the creation of sound palettes used in the granular synthesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/995/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Multimedia', 'Real-Time and Embedded Systems'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Prediction of deleterious nonsynonymous SNPs by integrating multiple classifiers \u2013 An application to neurodegenerative diseases', ['Md Mesbah-Uddin'], u'2015-04-21', u'In this study, we propose a logistic regression model to classify deleterious missense mutation from a list of nonsynonymous SNPs (nsSNPs) \u2013 where multiple features (i.e. rank scores of 18 classifiers e.g. SIFT, PolyPhen2, MutationTaster, MutationAssessor, FATHMM, VEST 3.0, RadialSVM, LR, CADD, etc. from dbNSFP v2.5) are combined for 44,702 UniProt human polymorphisms and disease mutations (19,033 disease and 25,669 neutral). The model is trained and validated on 80% of the data (15,226 disease + 20,535 neutral nsSNPs), and tested on remaining 20% (3,807 disease + 5134 neutral nsSNPs); and finally applied to a neurodegenerative disease-specific dataset (NeuroTest) from UniProt. The ROC AUC of the model is 0.97 on test set and 0.92 on NeuroTest dataset, with an accuracy of 0.91 and 0.86, respectively. Our model outperforms SIFT, PolyPhen2, MutationTaster, MutationAssessor, and the two ensemble classifiers of dbNSFP v2.5, on both the testing sets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/994/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Science, King Abdulaziz University']]
[u'Patient understanding of radiation risk from medical computed tomography - A comparison of Hispanic vs. Non-Hispanic Emergency Department populations', ['Afton McNierney-Moore', 'Cynthia Smith', 'Jose H. Guardiola', 'K Tom Xu', 'Peter Richman'], u'2015-04-21', u'Background: Cultural differences and language barriers may adversely impact patients with respect to understanding the risks/benefits of medical testing. Objective: We hypothesized that there would be no difference in Hispanic vs. non-Hispanic patients\u2019 knowledge of radiation risk that results from CT of the abdomen/pelvis (CTAP). Methods: We enrolled a convenience sample of adults at an inner-city ED. Patients provided written answers to rate agreement on a 10-point scale for two correct statements comparing radiation exposure equality between: CTAP and 5 years of background radiation (question 1); CTAP and 200 chest x-rays (question 3). Patients also rated their agreement that multiple CT scans increase the lifetime cancer risk (question 2). Scores of > 8 were considered good knowledge. Multivariate logistic regression analyses were performed to estimate the independent effect of the Hispanic variable. Results: 600 patients in the study group; 63% Hispanic, mean age 39.2 +/- 13.9 years. Hispanics and non-Hispanics whites were similar with respect to good knowledge-level answers to question 1 (17.3 vs 15.1%; OR=1.2; 95 % CI=0.74- 2.0), question 2 (31.2 vs. 39.3%; OR=0.76; 95% CI=0.54 - 1.1), and question 3 (15.2 vs. 16.5%; OR =1.1; 95% CI= 0.66 - 1.8). Compared to patients who earned < $20,000, patients with income > $40,000 were more likely to answer question 2 with good knowledge (OR =1.96; 95% CI=1.2 \u2013 3.1). Conclusion: The study group\u2019s overall knowledge of radiation risk was poor, but we did not find significant differences between Hispanic vs. non-Hispanic patients.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/993/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Emergency Medicine, Christus Spohn/Texas A&M Health Science Center (Corpus Christi)', u'Department of Mathematics, Texas A&M/Corpus Christi', u'Department of Surgery, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center']]
[u'Tech report: Orchestrating your cloud orchestra: Model driven development of cloud deployment and orchestration for distributed computer music instruments', ['Abram Hindle'], u'2015-04-17', u'Cloud computing potentially ushers in a new era of computer music performance with exceptionally large computer music instruments consisting of 10s to 100s of virtual machines called a Cloud Orchestra. Cloud computing allows for the rapid provisioning of resources, but to deploy such a complicated and interconnected network of software synthesizers in the cloud requires a lot of manual work, system administration knowledge, and devops (developer-sysop) skills. This is a barrier to computer musicians whose goal is to produce and perform music, and not to sysadmin 100s of computers. This work discusses the issues facing cloud orchestra deployment and offers an abstract solution and a concrete implementation. The abstract solution is generate cloud orchestra deployment plans by allowing computer musicians to model their network of synthesizers and to describe their resources. A model optimizer will compute near-optimal deployment plans to synchronize, deploy, and orchestrate the start-up of a complex network of synthesizers deployed to many computers. This model driven development approach frees computer musicians from much of the hassle of deployment and allocation. Computer musicians can focus on the configuration of musical components and leave the resource allocation up to the modelling software to optimize.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/991/', ['Computer Networks and Communications', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computing Science, University of Alberta']]
[u'Three dimensional reconstructions of Nummulites tests reveal complex chamber shapes', ['Willem Renema', 'Laura Cotton'], u'2015-04-17', u'Larger benthic foraminifera (LBF) are an important tool for the biostratigraphy of (sub)tropical shallow marine deposits. In Paleogene the genus Nummulites is an important genus for biostratigraphical zonation schemes. However, classification is Europe centered and based on external characters and equatorial thin sections. New results from regions outside the northern Tethys shows that a more rigid framework for the classification of nummulites is needed.\nHere we present a new tool for achieving this goal. We visualise 3D chamber shape of Nummulites djodjokartae and compare these to traditional morphometrical characters. To achieve this goal we use computed microtomography of well preserved Nummulites tests.\nWe find that despite the regular shape in equatorial and axial thin section 3D chamber shape is not predicted by these sections. We argue that 3D reconstructions of Nummulites tests will be a great aid in improving our understanding lineages within the genus Nummulites, and to elucidate its evolutionary and biogeographical history.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/990/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center']]
[u'Wristwatches predict personality and punctuality', ['David A Ellis', 'Rob Jenkins'], u'2015-04-17', u'In exploratory (N>100) and confirmatory samples (N>600), we compared big-five personality traits between individuals who do or do not regularly wear a traditional wristwatch. Alongside lower levels of extraversion and openness, significantly higher levels of conscientiousness were observed in participants who wear a watch. In a third study (N=85), we observed that watch wearers arrive significantly earlier to appointments in comparison to controls. These results are discussed in relation to the rise of wearable technology including smartwatches.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/989/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology, University of Lincoln', u'Department of Psychology, University of York']]
[u'Calcium affinity of human \u03b1-actinin1', ['Lars Backman'], u'2015-04-16', u'Due to alternative splicing the human ACTN1 gene codes for three different transcripts of \u03b1\u2011actinin; one isoform that is expressed only in the brain and two with a more general expression pattern. The sequence difference is located to the C-terminal domains and the EF-hand motifs. Therefore any functional or structural distinction should involve this part of the protein. To investigate this further, the calcium affinities of these three isoforms of \u03b1\u2011actinin1 have been determined by isothermal calorimetry.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/988/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics'], [u'Department of Chemistry, Ume\xe5 University']]
[u'Novel epitopes identified from efflux pumps of Mycobacterium tuberculosis could induce cytotoxic T lymphocyte response', ['Mingxia Zhai', 'Fei Chen', 'Yuanyuan Zhao', 'Yahong Wu', 'Guodong Li', 'Yanfeng Gao', 'Yuanming Qi'], u'2015-04-16', u'Overcoming drug-resistance is one of the major challenges to control tuberculosis (TB). The up-regulation of efflux pumps is one common mechanism that leads to drug-resistance. Therefore, immunotherapy targeting these efflux pump antigens could be promising strategy to be combined with current chemotherapy. Considering that CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) induced by antigenic peptides (epitopes) could elicit HLA-restricted anti-TB immune response, efflux pumps from classical ABC family (Mycobacterium tuberculosis, Mtb) were chosen as target antigens to identify CTL epitopes. HLA-A2 restricted candidate peptides from Rv2937, Rv2686c and Rv2687c of Mycobacterium tuberculosis were predicted, synthesized and tested. Five peptides could induce IFN-\u03b3 release and cytotoxic activity in PBMCs from HLA-A2+ PPD+ donors. Results from HLA-A2/Kb transgenic mice immunization assay suggested that four peptides Rv2937-p168, Rv2937-p266, Rv2686c-p151, and Rv2686c-p181 could induce significant CTL response in vivo. These results suggested that these novel epitopes could be used as immunotherapy candidates to TB drug-resistance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/987/', ['Biochemistry', 'Microbiology', 'Immunology'], [u'School of Life Sciences, Zhengzhou University']]
[u'A new species of Phrynops from Southern Brazil (Testudines, Chelidae), with comments on the phylogeny of the genus', ['Natalia Rizzo Friol', 'Flavio de Barros Molina', 'Hussam El Dine Zaher'], u'2015-04-15', u'Background. Phrynops present four valid species, including P. geoffroanus that might represents a complex of cryptic species. Here, we provide a preliminary analysis of the taxonomy and phylogenetic affinities within Phrynops, with special reference to the taxonomic status of populations of P. geoffroanus and P. tuberosus, and the recognition of a new species from Southern Brazil. Methods. We studied populations from ten Brazilian river basins. A linear morphometric analysis was performed in order to define taxonomically distinct populations. Also, a phylogenetic analysis using morphology and molecular data (sequenced for the genes R35, RAG2, c-mos, cytb, ND4, and 12S) were carried out. Three distinct sets of phylogenetic analyses were performed: parsimony to morphological and combined data, and maximum likelihood to molecular data. Results. The combined analysis shows that Phrynops represents a well supported clade. The set of skeletal data supports Mesoclemmys as the sister group of Phrynops, whereas the molecular and combined data sets show Phrynops as the sister group of a clade composed by all the remaining genera of Chelidae, except Hydromedusa. Our morphological analyses suggest that P. hilarii is the sister group of P. geoffroanus, but in both molecular and combined analyses, P. hilarii appears nested within the clade formed by the populations of P. geoffroanus. Futhermore, P. tuberosus and P. geoffroanus are not distinguishable by the set of osteological and morphometric data. On the other hand, both morphometric and osteological data show that the population of P. geoffroanus from the Paran\xe1 river basin is a distinct species. Discussion. The sister group relationships of Phrynops could not be clearly defined due to the different topologies achieved. Phrynops hilarii is included within of P. geoffroanus in both molecular and combined data, but this position has little statistical support and therefore does not express a clear position of P. hilarii within the genus Phrynops. Besides, we were not able to distinguish P. geoffroanus and P. tuberosus. However, a sampling of specific locations are still needed to objectively define the taxonomic status of P. tuberosus. Finally, the population of P. geoffroanus from the Paran\xe1 basin is clearly distinct from the remaining populations of this species. Qualitative osteological characters and morphometric results seem to demonstrate that this population is a new species of Phrynops.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/986/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Museu de Zoologia da Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo', u'Curso de Ci\xeancias Biol\xf3gicas, Universidade de Santo Amaro']]
[u'Runtime metric meets developer - Building better cloud applications using feedback', ['Jurgen Cito', 'Philipp Leitner', 'Harald C. Gall', 'Aryan Dadashi', 'Anne Keller', 'Andreas Roth'], u'2015-04-15', u'A unifying theme of many ongoing trends in software engineering is a blurring of the boundaries between building and operating software products. In this paper, we explore what we consider to be the logical next step in this succession: integrating runtime monitoring data from production deployments of the software into the tools developers utilize in their daily workflows (i.e., IDEs) to enable tighter feedback loops. We refer to this notion as feedback-driven development (FDD). This more abstract FDD concept can be instantiated in various ways, ranging from IDE plugins that implement feedback-driven refactoring and code optimization to plugins that predict performance and cost implications of code changes prior to even deploying the new version of the software. We demonstrate existing proof-of-concept realizations of these ideas and illustrate our vision of the future of FDD and cloud-based software development in general. Further, we discuss the major challenges that need to be solved before FDD can achieve mainstream adoption.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/985/', ['World Wide Web and Web Science', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Software Evolution and Architecture Lab, University of Zurich', u'SAP SE (Systems, Applications & Products in Data Processing)']]
[u'Landscape configuration of seagrass meadows regulates sea urchins predation in a Marine Protected Area: what is the role of bottom predators?', ['Simone Farina', 'Silvia Oliva', 'Ivan Guala', 'Rodrigo Silva', 'Luigi Piazzi', 'Matteo Spanu', 'Giulia Ceccherelli'], u'2015-04-15', u'In Mediterranean benthic ecosystems of shallow water local-scale predation maintains a main control on both sea urchin population and the ecological structure of macrophyte community. The use of the habitat by local predator guild in dependence on the regional context shapes prey distributions across the environment. On rocky habitat, the sea urchin Paracentrotus lividus is widely known as prey of apex fish predators that indirectly shape the structure of benthic assemblages whereas, in structured Posidonia oceanica, P. lividus can find shelter from predators. In this study, we assessed survival rates of P. lividus in a Marine Protected Area (Sardinia) at the aim to evaluate the role of composition and configuration of landscape on its predation risk. Sites of different landscapes were selected in function of their heterogeneity estimated according to the different proportions and spatial interspersion of four classes of habitats defined on the basis of P. oceanica meadows arrangement: (1) continuous, (2) fragmented and (3) patchy meadows and (4) absence of seagrass (i.e. rocky bottom with macroalgae communities). In order to capture the domain of the ecological process a sampling grain 5x5 meters was used as minimal spatial resolution at which information is assessed. Specifically continuous sampling units in a grid of 7x7 cells yield landscape quadrats of 35 \xd7 35 m and allowed a finer description of the spatial pattern. For each cell we also estimated structural variables of seagrass habitats such as unburied mat, shoot density, canopy height, cover percent, roughness and the natural abundances of prey and predators. After placing the tagged sea urchins, we daily observed the survival rates for twenty days. Predation risk was significantly higher in continuous and fragmented seagrass habitats and predator marks were typically produced by gastropod\u2019s attacks. Landscape indices are used to correlate the amount of available habitat for gastropods movements with sea urchin\u2019s predation risk. Interestingly, estimated predation rate also was negatively correlated with natural sea urchins density across grid cells. Results suggest that, although fishes are considered among the most important pressures on sea urchin population, especially in effective MPAs, bottom predators\u2019 control can be relevant in structurally complex environment such as seagrasses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/982/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Coastal Ecosystems, Fondazione IMC-Centro Marino Internazionale Onlus', u'Department of Science for Nature and Environmental Resources, University of Sassari']]
[u'An integrated model of brain structure and function', ['Nick J Beaumont'], u'2015-04-14', u'The fluid in the extracellular space around the neurons and glial cells is enclosed within the brain, kept separate from the circulation and the rest of the body-fluid. This brain interstitial fluid forms a distinct compartment; a sponge-like \u201cinverse cell\u201d that surrounds all the cells. During neuronal resting and action potentials, sodium and potassium ions shuttle into, and out of, this \u201cReciprocal Domain\u201d within the brain. This localised flux of ions is the counterpart to all the neuronal electrochemical activity (having the same intensity and duration, at the same sites in the brain), so a complementary version of all that potential information is integrated into this space within the brain. This flux of cations in the Reciprocal Domain may indirectly influence neuronal activity in the brain, creating immensely complex feedback. This Reciprocal Domain is unified throughout the brain, and exists continuously throughout life. This model identifies which species have such Reciprocal Domains, and how many times similar systems evolved. This account of the Reciprocal Domain of the brain may have clinical implications; it could be vulnerable to disruption by chemical insult, traumatic injury or pathology. These are key characteristics of our core selves; this encourages the idea that this Reciprocal Domain makes a crucial contribution to the brain. This hypothesis is explored and developed here.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/765/', ['Biochemistry', 'Neuroscience', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Neurology'], [u'Division of Medicine, University College London']]
[u'Correlation between types of diabetic retinopathy and its psychosocial impact', ['Chinmay T Jani', 'Tejas Desai', 'Sonal Parikh', 'Aashka A Shah', 'Sonali Katara'], u'2015-04-14', u'INTRODUCTION:  Diabetic retinopathy affects majority (70% to 90%) of diabetic patients, causes visual impairment which leads to severe psycho-social disruption in life. Our objective was to study the patients of diabetic retinopathy, co-relate between the types of diabetic retinopathy and the extent of psychosocial impairment in these patients.    MATERIALS AND METHODS:  Data of the diabetic patients attending the Retina Clinic of C.H. Nagri Eye Hospital, Ahmedabad was collected using a pretested questionnaire. It included ocular history, history related to diabetes, data of ocular examination and type of retinopathy (if present). For psycho-social assessment, the patients were made to fill the validated Gujarati language version of \u201cGeneral Health Questionnaire -28 (GHQ 28).\u201d Self-scoring was done ranging from 0-1-2-3 (lower to higher disability respectively). Analysis of significance was carried out by Mann-Whitney Test using statistical software.    RESULTS:  Total 308 patients were studied. The subjects were divided into 3 groups: (A) Diabetes Mellitus Type-2 (DM-2) patients without retinopathy. (B) DM-2 patients having Non-Proliferative Retinopathy (C) DM-2 patients having Proliferative Retinopathy. According to the accepted scoring pattern of GHQ-28 (cut of point 25), it was observed that 80.26% of patients having non proliferative retinopathy in both eyes and 93.75% patients having proliferative retinopathy in both eyes were psychosocially impaired. The impairment was found to be more severe in proliferative retinopathy patients as compared to non-proliferative retinopathy patients. (p value <0.005) (Mean GHQ score in PDR=41.88 > NPDR = 35.74). It was also found that in DM-2 patients without retinopathy the average mean score was 25.22 which showed less impairment (p value <0.005). Detailed analysis showed that there was more impairment in the field of social dysfunction.    CONCLUSION:  Patients of Diabetic Retinopathy had more psychosocial impairment which shows its significant impact on quality of life and overall health. Psychiatric counselling must be given to the impaired patients to decrease the impact of the disease on the psychosocial aspect of health. It is necessary to decrease the psychosocial suffering along with the control of disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/981/', ['Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Ophthalmology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Smt N.H.L. Municipal Medical College', u'Shri C.H Nagri Eye Hospital']]
[u"Tyrannosaurids didn't use their claws in combat", ['Chan-gyu Yun'], u'2015-04-13', u"Rothschild (2013) suggested that many of the facial and postcranial scars in tyrannosaurid specimens are in fact caused by claws of the other tyrannosaurids. However, the evidences suggested by Rothschild (2013) are very weak. Tooth marks can have very different shapes with real tooth sections or shapes, and multi-ton giants like tyrannosaurids would have been impossible to kick each others' faces. Also, the very short, range limited tyrannosaurid forelimbs would be impossible to hit the opponents' faces.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/980/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology', 'Pathology'], [u'Yeonsu High School']]
[u'Three-taxon analysis can always successfully recognize groups based on putative reversals', ['Evgeny V Mavrodiev'], u'2015-04-13', u'Three-taxon analysis in it canonical form can always successfully recognize groups based on putative reversals if latter are coded as separate states before three-taxon permutations are derived from conventional matrices. This way of coding removes incongruence from either conventional multistate or three-taxon matrices and makes the discussions about symplesiomorphy as a putative homology unnecessary. The ability of conventional parsimony to recognize reversal-based clades is technically nothing more than grouping by plesiomorphic values. Therefore this solution cannot be accepted as a Cladistic approach to data and must be correctly classified as \u201cpost-Hennigian\u201d or \u201cphenetic\u201d. The ability of three-taxon analysis to recognize groups based on the putative reversals may be viewed as a heuristic cladistics attempts to prevent this \u201cphenetic\u201d approach affecting the analysis of the data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/979/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy', 'Computational Science'], [u'Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida, PO. Box 117800']]
[u'"Sleep-in-a-box": Algorithmic approach to extract rest phases with mobile accelerometry', ['Karl Muller', 'Martin Daumer'], u'2015-04-13', u'This paper suggests a knew approach for analysing inactive phases in long term measurements using mobile accelerometry attached to a human body. The goal of the work is to provide a commandline tool to automaticaly parse a timestamped list of acceleration data in order to extract the phases that represent the sleeping periods. Justified on the fact that the data collection is motivated more in a healthcare environment than in a detailed sleeping research the methods do not concentrate on getting exact differentiation between real sleeping and awake lying periods. Detecting a significant long period with an inactivity pattern that permits the assumption that the received recovery quality is similar to the effects of sleeping on the human body will be enough to classify it as restphase. Furthermore the algorithm is not designed to find the exact amount of time that can be related to this classification. Finding enough of the relevant periods to provide a good view on the quantity and quality of inactive rest the observed human body gets should satisfy the task.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/978/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, Technische Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen', u'Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute']]
[u'\u201cKleist\u201d: Ideas for new parameter to measure running style', ['Martin Daumer', 'Julia Fumbarev', 'Nicole Ellenrieder', 'Alexander Schaermann', 'Paul Subkowski', 'Christian Lederer'], u'2015-04-12', u'Many people prefer running to keep in shape. In recent years many self-tracking and self-optimization gadgets has become popular especially for running. We are interested in the quality of running because individual running style has an impact on the running performance as well as on the running injury risk. Hence, in order to increase the performance and lower the injury risk, runners should be educated towards a healthy running technique. Before making an advice, it is crucial to distinguish between different running styles.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/976/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Orthopedics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute', u'Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, TU Munich', u'Documentation and Computer Science in Medicine, Hochschule Ulm']]
[u'Comparing cestode infections and their consequences for host fitness in two sexual branchiopods: alien Artemia franciscana and native A. salina from mixed-populations', ['Stella Redon', 'Francisco Amat', 'Marta I. Sanchez', 'Andy J. Green'], u'2015-04-10', u'The American brine shrimp Artemia franciscana is invasive in the Mediterranean region where it has displaced native species (the sexual A. salina, and the clonal A. parthenogenetica) from many salt pond complexes. Artemia populations are parasitized by numerous avian cestodes whose effects have been studied in native species. We present a study from the Ebro Delta salterns (NE Spain), in a salt pond where both A. franciscana and native A. salina populations coexist, providing a unique opportunity to compare the parasite loads of the two sexual species in syntopy. The native species had consistently higher infection parameters, largely because the dominant cestode in A. salina adults and juveniles (Flamingolepis liguloides) was much rarer in A. franciscana. The most abundant cestodes in the alien species were Eurycestus avoceti (in adults) and Flamingolepis flamingo (in juveniles). The abundance of E. avoceti and F. liguloides was higher in the A. franciscana population syntopic with A. salina than in a monospecific population sampled at the same time in another pond where the native brine shrimp was absent, possibly because the native shrimp provides a better reservoir for parasite circulation. Infection by cestodes caused red colouration in adult and juvenile A. salina, and also led to castration in a high proportion of adult females. Both these effects were significantly stronger in the native host than in A. franciscana with the same parasite loads. However, for the first time, significant castration effects (for E. avoceti and F. liguloides) and colour change (for six cestode species) were observed in infected A. franciscana. Avian cestodes are likely to help A. franciscana outcompete native species. At the same time, they are likely to reduce the production of A. franciscana cysts in areas where they are harvested commercially.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/975/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Parasitology', 'Zoology'], [u'Instituto de Acuicultura de Torre de la Sal (IATS), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cient\xedficas (CSIC)', u'Department of Wetland Ecology, Estaci\xf3n Biol\xf3gica de Do\xf1ana (EBD), Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cient\xedficas (CSIC)']]
[u'Is the Child-to-Child approach useful in improving uptake of eye care services in difficult-to-reach rural communities? Experience from Southwest Nigeria', ['Olutoke O Ayorinde', 'Gudlavalleti VS Murthy', 'Oluwaseun O Akinyemi'], u'2015-04-10', u'Background: Blindness and severe visual impairment render affected individuals, families and communities economically, socially and physically disadvantaged. The number of adults \u2265 40 years with severe visual impairment and blindness in Nigeria is projected to increase from 1.02 million (2008) to 1.4 million (2020). Utilization of available eye care services improves quality of life, but uptake is generally unsatisfactory. Empowering individuals, including children, to identify, motivate and appropriately refer them improves utilization. Children, because of their peculiar roles in families and communities, could be important change agents. This study was designed to determine if primary school pupils aged 9-14 years can be satisfactorily trained, using the child-to- parent approach, to assess vision, refer and motivate people to attend screening eye camps. Methods: Ninety pupils aged 9-14 years attending two purposively-selected primary schools were selected by simple random sampling. Using the child-to-parent approach and Snellens 6/60 illiterate E-chart, participants had a 2-day knowledge and skill-based training followed by 2 days of community-based vision assessment and referral of those assessed. The adequacy and success of the training were assessed by comparing pre- and post-test scores. Results: Three hundred and thirty-six persons were referred and examined; of these, 142 (42.3%) persons were reviewed. Overall there was significant improvement in knowledge. The accuracy of assessments was 82.1% for Right Eyes (RE), 83.3% for Left Eyes (LE) and 72.1% for presbyopia. The sensitivities for the RE, LE and presbyopia were 84.8%, 86.1% and 76.3% respectively. Similarly, the specificities were 44.4% for RE, 50.0% for LE and 68.6% for presbyopia. The performances were not significantly influenced by age, sex and locality. Conclusion: Children aged 9-14 years in primary schools can be empowered, using the child-to-child approach, to assess vision and motivate members of their communities to utilize available eye care services.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/974/', ['Health Policy', 'Ophthalmology', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Ophthalmology, University College Hospital', u'International Centre for Eye Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine', u'Department of Health Policy and Management, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan']]
[u'The evolution of the fifth cervical vertebrae in Pelomedusoides (Testudines, Pleurodira): a preliminary analysis', ['Thiago F Mariani', 'Pedro S R Romano'], u'2015-04-10', u'Background. Crown-Pleurodira (i.e.: Cheloides and Pelomedusoides) possess a side-necked retraction mode with specialized cervical vertebrae (CV) anatomy. Moreover, there are distinctive ecological features among its lineages, as the convergent long neck in species of Chelidae and in the extinct pelomedusoid Araripemydidae. Also, the CV5-CV6 articulation is the major point of flexure in neck retraction and reflects a key point for the evolution of Pleurodira. Here we evaluated CV5 shape variation within some Pleurodira groups with emphasis on some Brazilian fossil species. Methods. We analyzed the fifth CV of eight species and 14 specimens comprising four pleurodiran clades (Chelidae, Araripemydidae, Bothremydidae and Podocnemididae) in order to assess the shape variation via geometric morphometry. All specimens were photographed in caudal view under the same protocol, and eight landmarks (LM) were picked at the left side of each vertebrae using TPSDig2. Data were Procrustes superimposed and a Relative Warps Analysis (RWA) was performed using TPSRelw v1.49. Results. RW1 and RW2 summarized 68.63% of the shape variance. The scatter of the specimens revealed distinctiveness between Podocnemidoidea (Podocnemididae+Bothremydidae) and Araripemys+Chelidae paraphyletic group. Such variation is due to (1) a medial contraction of the surface of the postzygapophysis, (2) a taller neural spine and (3) a more rounded vertebral condile towards Podocnemidoidea. Podocnemididae showed greater variation: a Podocnemis sextuberculata specimen (MZSP3218) is more alike to Cearachelys placidoi (Procrustes Distances, PD=0.17) than other podocnemidids and Bauruemys elegans resembles P. unifilis (PD=0.11). Also, other P. sextuberculata specimen (MZSP3217) is more alike to the Araripemys-Chelidae group. Discussion. Previous works have noticed the anatomical similarities between both longnecked chelids and A. barretoi, considering it as a convergence since they are from different clades. Our data showed the same pattern and, assuming the current phylogenetic relationships of Pleurodira, this might indicates similar feeding behavior between living Hydromedusa and Chelus and Araripemys. The Podocnemidoidea morphospace variation is consistent with the phylogeny, since C. placidoi is nested among Podocnemis spp., and this might indicate a more specialized CV5 for the former and a possible convergence with some Podocnemis species. Also, the resemblance of P. unifilis CV5 with B. elegans seems to indicate a morphotype similar to the podocnemidid ancestor for this living species. Despite our scanty sample, it shows a notable variation in Podocnemis spp. and at least two convergences among CV5 within Pleurodira. Further studies with additional sampling might shed light on a more complex evolution of CV specializations in side-necked turtles than previously assumed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/973/', ['Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Animal Biology, Federal University of Vi\xe7osa']]
[u'Staphylococcus Aureus carriage and long-term Rituximab treatment for Granulomatosis with polyangiitis', ['Emilio Besada', 'Wenche Koldingsnes', 'Johannes C Nossent'], u'2015-04-10', u'Objective: Chronic nasal carriage of Staphylococcus aureus (SA) increases the risk of relapse while Rituximab (RTX) is an effective agent for inducing and maintaining remission in patients with Granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA). We investigated whether B cell depletion and hypogammaglobulinemia that occur during RTX treatment increase the risk of chronic SA nasal carriage and subsequent disease flares, in GPA patients on long-term RTX maintenance therapy. Methods: Retrospective cohort study from a disease registry involving 29 GPA patients receiving RTX maintenance (median RTX dose of 9 g) during a median period of 49 months. Nasal swabs were collected prior and during RTX for a median of 3 and 9 swabs respectively. Persistent SA nasal carriage was defined with the presence of SA in more than 75 % of nasal swabs. Results: SA nasal carriage did not change during RTX (p=0.297). Persistent SA nasal carriage did not increase the risk of relapses (p=0.844) and of severe infections (p=0.144), but reduced the risk of chronic infections (p=0.044). Non-SA carriers were more prone to discontinue RTX due to hypogammaglobulinemia (p=0.122), since they had more profound decline of serum total Ig both after the first 2 g of RTX (p=0.079) and during RTX maintenance (p=0.063). Conclusion: Long-term RTX maintenance therapy in GPA patients did not significantly influence SA nasal carriage status. Persistent SA carriage during long-term RTX treatment did not increase the risk of relapses and was associated with a lower risk of hypogammaglobulinemia associated chronic infections.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/972/', ['Allergy and Clinical Immunology', 'Immunology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Internal Medicine', 'Rheumatology'], [u'Bone and joint research group, Department of Clinical Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, UiT The Arctic University of Norway', u'Department of Rheumatology, University Hospital of North Norway', u'Winthrop Professor, School of Medicine & Pharmacology, The University of Western Australia']]
[u'Analgesia effects of lappaconitine in leukemia bone pain in a mouse model', ['Xiao-Cui Zhu', 'Chen-Tao Ge', 'Wang Pan', 'Jia-Li Zhang', 'Yuan-Yang Yu', 'Cai-Yun Fu'], u'2015-04-09', u'Bone pain is a common and severe symptom in cancer patients. The present study employed a mouse model of leukemia bone pain by injection K562 cells into tibia of mouse to evaluate the analgesia effects of Lappaconitine. Our results showed that the lappaconitine treatment at day 15, 17 and 19 could effectively reduce the spontaneous pain scoring values, restore reduced degree in the inclined-plate test induced by injection of K562 cells, as well as restore paw mechanical withdrawal threshold and paw withdrawal thermal latency induced by injection of K562 cells to normal group levels. Additionally, the molecular mechanisms of lappaconitine\u2019s analgesia effects may be related to affect the expressive levels of endogenous opioid system genes (POMC, PENK and MOR), as well as apoptosis-related genes (Xiap, Smac, Bim, NF-\u03baB and p53). Our present results indicated that lappaconitine may become a new analgesia agent for pain management induced by leukemia cells.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/971/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Neuroscience', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Lab of Proteomics & Molecular Enzymology, School of Life Sciences, Zhejiang Sci-Tech University']]
[u'Efficient "pythonic" access to FASTA files using pyfaidx', ['Matthew D Shirley', 'Zhaorong Ma', 'Brent S Pedersen', 'Sarah J Wheelan'], u'2015-04-08', u'The pyfaidx Python module provides memory and time-efficient indexing, subsetting, and in-place modification of subsequences of FASTA files. pyfaidx provides Python classes that expose a dictionary interface where sequences from an indexed FASTA can be accessed by their header name and then sliced by position without reading the full file into memory. pyfaidx includes an extensive test suite to ensure correct and reproducible behavior. A command-line program (faidx) is also provided as an alternative interface, with significant enhancements to functionality, while maintaining full index file compatibility with samtools. The pyfaidx module is installable from PyPI (https://pypi.python.org/pypi/pyfaidx), and development versions can be found at Github (https://github.com/mdshw5/pyfaidx).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/970/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Center for Computational Genomics, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine', u'Department of Oncology, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine', u'SoftGenetics, LLC.', u'Eccles Institute of Human Genetics, University of Utah School Of Medicine']]
[u'The social amplification of disaster: Policy implications for agroecological pandemics', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2015-04-08', u"It is well understood that a vast spectrum of RNA virus types is undergoing rapid genetic reassortment and evolution in large-scale animal monoculture facilities, increasingly likely to entrain newer pathogens from neoliberally 'developing' areas to produce a massively fatal human pandemic that will overwhelm even the best possible health system responses. In such a pandemic -- that a mathematical model suggests can penetrate far more deeply than the 1918 event -- the USA and the PRC, which are parallel in animal monoculture structures, could lose a significant fraction of their populations to direct disease. Here, we examine powerful but less understood mechanisms of social amplification that can greatly raise the ultimate loss of life, roughly similar to the impact of the 'stabbed in the back' myth that emerged in Germany after WW I. It is obvious that effective programs to contain these threats must include -- or even begin with -- establishment of a close collaboration between interests in the USA and the PRC, where most large-scale animal monoculture is either located or from which it is managed.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/968/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Concept learning of ecological and artificial stimuli in rhesus macaques', ['Drew Altschul', 'Greg Jensen', 'Herbert S Terrace'], u'2015-04-08', u'The study of concepts in animals is complicated by the possibility that performance reflects reinforcement learning of discriminative cues, which might be used to categorize of stimuli. To minimize that possibility, we trained seven rhesus macaques to respond, in a specific order, to four simultaneously presented exemplars of different perceptual concepts. These exemplars were drawn at random from large banks of images; in some conditions, the stimuli changed on every trial. Subjects nevertheless identified and ordered these stimuli correctly. Three subjects learned to correctly order ecologically relevant concepts; four subjects, to order close-up sections of paintings by four artists with distinctive styles. All subjects classified stimuli significantly better than that predicted by chance, and outperformed a feature-based computer vision algorithm, even when the exemplars were changed on every trial. Furthermore, six subjects (three using ecological stimuli and three using paintings) transferred these concepts to novel stimuli. Our results suggest that monkeys possess a flexible ability to form class-based perceptual concepts that cannot be explained as the mere discrimination of physical features.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/967/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Scottish Primate Research Group & Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh', u'Department of Neuroscience, Columbia University Medical Center', u'Department of Psychology, Columbia University']]
[u'Sex differences in beliefs and attitudes towards mental illness: An examination of mental health literacy in a community sample', ['Ray J Gibbons', 'Einar B Thorsteinsson', 'Natasha M Loi'], u'2015-04-08', u'Objectives: The current study investigated mental health literacy in an Australian sample to examine the influence sex has in the identification of and attitudes towards various aspects of mental illness.\nMethod: An online questionnaire was completed by 373 participants (267 female, M = 34.87). Participants were randomly assigned a vignette depicting an individual exhibiting the symptoms of one of three types of mental illness and asked to answer questions relating to aspects of mental health literacy.\nResults: Males exhibited poorer mental health literacy skills compared to females. Males were less likely to correctly identify the type of mental illness, more likely to rate symptoms as less serious and to perceive the individual as having greater personal control over such symptoms.\nConclusion: Generally, the sample was relatively proficient at correctly identifying mental illness but overall males displayed poorer mental health literacy skills than females.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/965/', ['Epidemiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Psychology, School of Behavioural, Cognitive and Social Sciences, University of New England']]
[u'Self-generated morphology in lagoon reefs', ['David Blakeway', 'Michael G Hamblin'], u'2015-04-07', u'The three-dimensional form of a coral reef develops through interactions and feedbacks between its constituent organisms and their environment. Reef morphology therefore contains a potential wealth of ecological information, accessible if the relationships between morphology and ecology can be decoded. Traditionally, reef morphology has been attributed to external controls such as substrate topography or hydrodynamic influences. Little is known about inherent reef morphology in the absence of external control. Here we use reef growth simulations, based on observations in the cellular reefs of Western Australia\u2019s Houtman Abrolhos Islands, to show that reef morphology is fundamentally determined by the mechanical behaviour of the reef-building organisms themselves\u2014specifically their tendency to either remain in place or to collapse. Reef-building organisms that tend to remain in place, such as massive and encrusting corals or coralline algae, produce nodular reefs, whereas those that tend to collapse, such as branching Acropora, produce cellular reefs. The purest reef growth forms arise in sheltered lagoons dominated by a single type of reef builder, as in the branching Acropora-dominated lagoons of the Abrolhos. In these situations reef morphology can be considered a phenotype of the predominant reef building organism. The capacity to infer coral type from reef morphology can potentially be used to identify and map specific coral habitat in remotely sensed images. More generally, identifying ecological mechanisms underlying other examples of self-generated reef morphology can potentially improve our understanding of present-day reef ecology, because any ecological process capable of shaping a reef will almost invariably be an important process in real time on the living reef.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/576/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'School of Earth and Environment, University of Western Australia', u'Fathom 5 Marine Research', u'School of Mechanical and Chemical Engineering, University of Western Australia']]
[u'Analysis of consistency in large multi-section courses using exploration of linked visual data summaries', ['Mehmet Adil Yalcin', 'Elizabeth E Gardner', 'Lindsey B Anderson', 'Rowie Kirby-Straker', 'Andrew D. Wolvin', 'Benjamin B Bederson'], u'2015-04-07', u'Higher education courses with large student enrollments are commonly offered in multiple sections by multiple instructors. Monitoring consistency of teaching activities across sections is crucial in achieving equity for all students, and in developing strategies in response to emerging patterns and outliers. To address this need, we present an approach to analyze the multivariate data of sections, assignments and student submissions collected by a learning management system (LMS) using a new data exploration framework that we call linked data summaries. Data summaries are a unit of exploration with uncluttered, analytical, comprehensible visualizations of aggregations of data records attributes. Data browsers link multiple summaries and record lists, and enable flexible and rapid data analysis through tightly coupled interaction. Our analysis approach, developed in collaboration between analytics researchers and university instructors, reveals patterns across many aspects, including assignment and section structures, submission grading and timeliness. We present findings from an analysis of three semesters of an introductory oral communication course with over 1,750 students and 90 sections per semester.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/964/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Data Science', 'Visual Analytics'], [u'Human-Computer Interaction Lab, University of Maryland', u'Department of Communication, University of Maryland', u'Teaching & Learning Transformation Center, University of Maryland']]
[u'Reef growth and limestone erosion', ['David Blakeway'], u'2015-04-07', u'Because the shapes and forms of many coral reefs resemble karst (erosion landforms created by dissolution of limestone), it is widely believed that those reefs have grown on karst foundations, and that Holocene growth perpetuates the underlying topography. However, this concept has become difficult to reconcile with the growing amount of seismic and coring evidence demonstrating that several karst-like reef features are entirely constructional. Here I use cellular automata simulations to show that coral reefs resemble karst limestones not because they are built on karst foundations, but because reef growth and limestone erosion are fundamentally the same process, running in opposite directions. Coral reef landscapes are in fact inverse karst\u2014the basic spectrum of reef growth forms mirrors the basic spectrum of limestone erosion forms. In both growth and erosion, the development of form is a self-organised phenomenon emerging from the cumulative action of small-scale processes. The essential morphological control in both cases is slope stability, which depends on the composition of each system: coral type in reefs and lithology (rock type) in limestones. Solid, well cemented reefs and limestones, which can maintain steep slopes without collapsing, produce nodular reefs and pinnacle karst respectively, whereas unconsolidated, friable reefs and limestones, which frequently collapse, produce cellular reefs and cone karst.The growth forms produced in the model should theoretically apply to all modular skeleton-building organisms growing in a fluid medium, and may therefore provide useful templates in the search for extraterrestrial life. While none of the model forms can be considered unequivocally diagnostic of life, because all could conceivably arise through inanimate crystallisation, the model\u2019s seemingly accurate rendition of biogenic carbonate morphology on earth suggests that it may provide a useful foundation for evaluating and exploring the range of macroscale self-organised biogenic structures that could arise on other planets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/963/', ['Computational Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'School of Earth and Environment, University of Western Australia', u'Current address: Fathom 5 Marine Research']]
[u'The association between sleep duration and obesity amongst Canadians aged 12 and over', ['Maha Temkit', 'Sanni Yaya'], u'2015-04-07', u'Obesity is a medical condition in which excess body fat has accumulated to the extent that it may trigger risk of chronic illness, reduce life expectancy, and affect quality of life. Body Mass Index (BMI), which relates the body\u2019s weight with height, has been widely used and accepted as a simple method to classify medical risk by weight status. Several variables are thought to be correlated with obesity in Canadian children, adolescents, and adults. The objective of this project is to investigate the effect of sleep duration, leptin levels, and ghrelin levels on the prevalence of obesity in Canada. The number of hours spent sleeping per night and self-reported BMI data from the 2011-2012 Canadian Community Health Survey (CCHS) are analyzed. The CCHS covers approximately 98% of the Canadian population aged 12 and over. It is hypothesized that a lack of sleep and later bed times are associated with a greater daily energy intake, lower leptin levels, and higher ghrelin levels, ultimately leading to obesity. Data analysis indicates a negative correlation, thus the hypothesis is accepted.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/962/', ['Global Health', 'Public Health'], [u'Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Ottawa', u'Interdisciplinary School of Health Sciences, University of Ottawa']]
[u'Megalochelys: gigantic tortoise from the Neogene of Myanmar', ['Ren Hirayama', 'Teppei Sonoda', 'Masanaru Takai', 'Thaung Htike', 'Zin Maung Maung Thein', 'Akio Takahashi'], u'2015-04-06', u'Background. The genus Megalochelys is the largest known testudinid (family Testudnidae) found from the upper Miocene to lower Pleistocene of India to Indonesian Islands. The maximum length of the shell in this genus has been estimated as up to about 2 m long based on a specimen from the lower Pleistocene of Java Island, Indonesia. Recently, joint paleontological expeditions of Japan and Myanmar led by M. Takai have unearthed abundant fossils of this genus from the Neogene since 2003. These materials shed new light on this unique gigantic tortoise. Methods. All materials of Megalochelys were found from the Lower Irrawaddy Beds in poor preservation except for one nearly complete shell. The shell lengths from the fragmentary materials were estimated by using those of medium to large\u2013sized testudinids. Results. Postcranial materials, including twenty-five epiplastra, one cervical vertebra, appendicular skeletons, and one nearly complete shell (about 180 cm long) have been discovered from the Lower Irrawaddy Beds in narrow area near Pauk Township. They are associated with terrestrial mammals such as Stegodon, suggesting that the age of the fossil bearing beds are attributed to the late Miocene to the early Pliocene. Of these, the epiplastra in two morphological states appear to be derived from sexual dimorphism of this genus as seen in several testudinids and noted previously by second author on the relevant materials. A huge distal portion of the humerus (ca. 31 cm long) suggests that its original length was about 75 cm. Discussion. A nearly complete shell is about 180 cm long, although this seems a rather young male individual of Megalochelys based on its rather slender epiplastral morphology, which is nearly as large as given estimation of the maximum shell length from Java material. On the other hand, the largest humerus, estimated as 75 cm in original length, suggests its shell was about 270 cm long. This estimation seems to be supported by other isolated materials such as the nuchal plate, largest epiplastron, and the pectoral girdle. Hitherto, Stupendemys geographica (from the Pliocene of Venezuela) and Archelon ischyros (from the Lower Cretaceous of North America) were regarded as largest known turtles with about 220 cm long shell. However, Megalochelys from Myanmar involves much larger specimens, suggesting this is a true largest known turtle.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/961/', ['Paleontology'], [u'SILS, Waseda University, Waseda University', u'Fukui Prefectural Dinosaur Museum', u'Primate Research Institute, Kyoto University', u'Shwebo University', u'Mandalay University', u'Department of Zoology, Faculty of Science, Okayama University of Science']]
[u'Non-lethal approach identifies variability of \u03b415N values in the fin rays of Atlantic Goliath Grouper, Epinephelus itajara', ['Orian Tzadik', 'Ethan Goddard', 'David J Hollander', 'Christopher Koenig', 'Christopher D. Stallings'], u'2015-04-06', u'The Atlantic Goliath Grouper, Epinephelus itajara, is critically-endangered throughout its range but has begun to show initial signs of recovery in Florida state waters. As the population continues to rebound, researchers face a pressing need to fill the knowledge gaps about this iconic species. Here, we examined the \u03b415N isotopic records in fin rays collected from Atlantic Goliath Grouper, and related changes of isotopic ratios over time to life history characteristics. Fin-ray analysis was used as a non-lethal technique to sample individuals from two locations at similar latitudes from the west and east coasts of Florida, U.S.A. \u03b415N data were acquired by mechanically separating the annuli of each fin ray and then analyzing the material in an Irradiance Elemental Analyzer Mass Spectrometer. The \u03b415N values were consistent among individuals within populations from each coast of Florida, and mirrored the expected changes over the lives of the fish. Overall, differences were found between \u03b415N values at juvenile life history phases versus adult phases, but the patterns associated with these differences were unique to each coastal group. We demonstrated, for the first time, that \u03b415N values from fin rays can be used to assess the life histories of Atlantic Goliath Grouper. The non-lethal strategies outlined here can be used to acquire information essential to the management of species of concern, such as those that are threatened or endangered.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/960/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'College of Marine Science, University of South Florida', u'Florida State University Coastal and Marine Laboratory, Florida State University']]
[u'New species of the side necked turtle Bothremys (Pleurodira: Podocnemidoidea: Bothremydidae) from the Upper Cretaceous of Morocco', ['Masataka Yoshida', 'Ren Hirayama'], u'2015-04-06', u'Background. Moroccan phosphates bed includes fossils of Sauropterygia, Testudines and mosasaurs from the latest Cretaceous (Maastrichitian) to Eocene. Family Bothremydidae (Podocnemidoidea), an extinct side-necked turtle group, has broad diversity in cranial morphology as shown by the genus Bothremys (Bothremydini). This genus is known from the Cretaceous and Paleogene of North America, Europe, Africa and middle east Asia, uniquely characterized by a pair of pits on the triturating surface of upper and lower jaws. Hitherto, four species have been recognized in Bothremys; B. cooki, B. kellyi, B. maghrebiana, and B. arabicus. Compared to the diversity of cranial morphology, little difference is known in the shell morphology in bothremydids. Also little is known about the limb morphology of bothremydini turtles, because of poor association of skull and postcranial skeleton. A new excellently preserved specimen of Bothremys is reported from the Upper Cretaceous of Morocco.\nMethods. The WSILS-RHg519 specimen stored in Waseda University is a large bothremydid skull associated with lower jaw and several postcranial elements including left humerus and peripherals.\nResults. The pair of pits on the triturating surfaces of upper and lower jaws in WSILSRHg519 specimen is a distinct autoapomorphic characters of the genus Bothremys. With the skull width 171mm, B. arabicus from the Santonian age of Jordan had been the largest species of genus Bothremys. The WSILS-RHg519 reaches the skull width 220mm and would be the largest member of Bothremys. Also, comparing the bone composition of the ventral surface of skull of the WSILS-RHg519 specimen to all other known Bothremys, the palatine-pterygoid contacts and pterygoid-pterygoid contact are quite unique. The left humerus is associated with the skull, partly damaged. The distal end of humerus is wide and the shaft is nearly straight, showing the first morphological evidence of aquatic/marine adaptation different from that of Chedighaii, the sister taxon of Bothremys.\nDiscussion. The marine habitat of bothremydid turtles had been roughly discussed on the basis of the association of shallow marine animals such as shark teeth. Morphological evidence has not suggested yet partly because of the difficulty of bothremydid taxonomy which is just based on the cranial morphology. The WSILS-RHg519 specimen will hopefully shed light on the mysterious habitats of bothremydid turtles.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/959/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Graduate School of Science, The University of Tokyo', u'School of International Liberal Studies, Waseda University']]
[u'The past, present and future of Chinese MA theses in Interpreting Studies: A scientometric survey', ['Ziyun Xu'], u'2015-04-06', u'This paper takes a scientometric approach to examining one of Chinese Interpreting Studies\u2019 (CIS) most productive sources of research, MA theses, with the aim of answering the following questions: How has the discipline changed over time? What fields and theories influence it? And what are its most common research themes? The study\u2019s comprehensive corpus of nearly 1,300 Chinese-language theses addresses a data-based limitation faced by earlier scholars. A range of state-of-the-art statistical techniques have made it possible to detect patterns in CIS that are difficult to tease out by human hand and eye alone. The field has grown rapidly in recent years and is now producing a steady and consistent stream of research: the majority of students in China draw inspiration from theories within Translation Studies, but no particular theories or topics have grown more popular over time. Despite this consistency, CIS remains a complex and dynamic field of academic enquiry.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/958/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Intercultural Studies Group, Universitat Rovira i Virgili']]
[u'Living in each other\u2019s pockets: Nucleotide variation inside a genomic island harboring Pan I and its neighbors in Atlantic cod', ['Ubaldo Benitez Hernandez', 'Einar Arnason'], u'2015-04-02', u'The Pan I locus in Atlantic cod lies in a genomic island of divergence extending over a large genomic region. The locus has two divergent alleles, defined by a single DraI restriction site, that have been related to behavioral differences of habitat selection by depth and temperature. The Pan I locus is known to be under an unusual mix of balancing selection and selective sweeps within the functional types. Here we study nucleotide variation in a 12.5 kb region inside the genomic island harboring Pan I and neighboring loci for sortilin 1 (Sort1) and ataxin 7-like 2 (Atxn7l2) which we partially covered. Variation of the 31 gene copies throughout the region falls into two divergent haplogroups that correlate with the 25 copies of A and six copies of B alleles of Pan I. The unfolded site frequency spectrum for the part with Pacific cod used as the outgroup is trimodal with a mode at singletons and two high frequency modes at 6/31 and 25/31 representing the two genealogical lineages. The folded site frequency spectrum for the entire region similarly has a high frequency mode of mutations that have accumulated on the two lineages. The high frequency of singletons is accounted for by multiple merger coalescent models. Parameter estimates using these models indicate sweepstakes reproduction. The high frequency modes of the spectrum is evidence for balancing selection. Analysis of non-synonymous changes shows that Pan I is at least one focus of selection within the genomic island. There may be multiple sites of selection and epistatic interactions. There is extensive linkage disequilibrium throughout the region. We suggest that the genomic island of divergence is a supergene of co-adapted complexes possibly locked together by structural variation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/956/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Institute of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Iceland']]
[u'Implicit value updating explains transitive inference performance: The betasort model', ['Greg Jensen', 'Fabian Munoz', 'Yelda Alkan', 'Vincent P Ferrera', 'Herbert S Terrace'], u'2015-04-02', u'Transitive inference (the ability to infer that \u201cB>D\u201d given that \u201cB>C\u201d and \u201cC>D\u201d) is a widespread characteristic of serial learning, observed in dozens of species. Despite these robust behavioral effects, reinforcement learning models reliant on reward prediction error or associative strength routinely fail to perform these inferences. We propose an algorithm called betasort, inspired by cognitive processes, which performs transitive inference at low computational cost. This is accomplished by (1) representing stimulus positions along a unit span using beta distributions, (2) treating positive and negative feedback asymmetrically, and (3) updating the position of every stimulus during every trial, whether that stimulus was visible or not. Performance was compared for rhesus macaques, humans, the betasort algorithm, and Q-learning (an established RPE model). Of these, only Q-learning failed to respond above chance during critical test trials. Implications for cognitive/associative rivalries, as well as for the model-based/model-free dichotomy, are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/954/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Neuroscience, Columbia University', u'Department of Psychology, Columbia University']]
[u'Preliminary checklist of phytopathogenic fungi in Sikkim, India', ['Prakash Pradhan'], u'2015-04-02', u'Sikkim is an Indian state with unique cultural and natural landscape. Being rich in bioresources, earlier biodiversity explorations have led to enumeration of varied flora and fauna. However, fungi being an important biodiversity component, and especially, the fungal phytopathogens having potential of impacting human economy and food security, present understanding is needed to make vision for the future. In this regard, past works (1877-2011) on phytopathogenic fungi reported from Sikkim were surveyed. In this manuscript, 98 species of plant pathogenic fungi (including anamorphs) under 76 genera are enlisted. The alphabetical checklist of the species is provided herewith. Further updates will be added in the subsequent versions of the publication.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/953/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Mycology'], [u'Department of Environment, West Bengal Biodiversity Board']]
[u'Chinese MA theses: The people behind the papers', ['Ziyun Xu'], u'2015-04-02', u'There is no denying that the growth of interpreting as an industry in China has been an explosive one. The increasing need for economic and political cooperation has spurred the demand for interpreters to bridge the linguistic and cultural divides that exist between China and the West. With the creation of master\u2019s and bachelor\u2019s degrees in Interpreting and Translation all over China, students from various universities have produced a wealth of literature in Interpreting Studies. However, owing to the lack of exchange of information and cooperation on the part of universities, to date there have been only a few systematic studies of MA theses, which represent years of work by aspiring interpreters. Using the latest statistical techniques and an exhaustive corpus, this paper is an objective examination of the differences and similarities between the choices of topic and theoretical inspirations of MA students at various Chinese universities, and of how their choices of topic and advisor affect their likelihood of pursuing careers in academia. This research indicates that Chinese Interpreting Studies cannot be considered a homogenous entity, even though universities tend to be influenced in similar ways and coincide on the most important research themes. This paper discusses the increasingly non-academic career paths of MA-level interpreting students.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/951/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Intercultural Studies Group, Universitat Rovira i Virgili']]
[u'Electrical induction hypothesis to explain enhancer-promoter communication', ['Valentina Agoni'], u'2015-04-02', u'The steps of the DNA replication process remains to be clarified. Transcription factors are supposed to find their specific binding-sequence driven by epigenetic modifications and GpC islands. But then how can the replication machinery be able to find the promoters of exactly the genes that the cell needs to transcribe in that moment? Here we hypothesize a role of DNA conductance and electrical induction to give an explanation to this unsolved problem. Our hypothesis goes in accordance with the fact that many authors identified 3D loops in the genomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/950/', ['Biophysics'], [u'Department of Molecular Medicine, University of Pavia']]
[u'New trionychoid specimens and turtle fauna from the Lower Cretaceous Kitadani Formation of the Tetori Group in central Japan', ['Teppei Sonoda', 'Yoichi Azuma', 'Ren Hirayama', 'Hisao Ando'], u'2015-04-02', u'Background. The Trionychoidea were dominant turtles in the Late Cretaceous of Asia and North America. Although Early Cretaceous trionychoids are quite important to reveal their origin and the early evolution, their fossil records are very poor so far. The Lower Cretaceous Kitadani Formation of the Tetori Group is one of the most productive dinosaur-bearing beds of Japan, and has yielded a lot of turtle remains. Trionychid, adocid, and nanhsiungchelyid were published as the oldest records by Hirayama (2002). Herein, we report new information about trionychid and adocid turtles from the Kitadani Formation. Methods. We examined and morphologically described more than 700 materials (mostly isolated shell fragments) from the Kitadani Formation (late Barremian to Aptian) of the Tetori Group in Katsuyama City, Fukui Prefecture, central Japan. All specimens have been collected in the paleontological excavations by Fukui Prefectural Dinosaur Museum since 1988. Results. The turtle fauna consists of four trionychoid taxa and two other eucryptodires. About 80 % are assigned to the Trionychoidea including a trionychid, two taxa of adocids, and a nanhsiungchelyid. Shell and skeletal assemblages of a soft-shelled turtle (FPDM-V9487, 9489) were newly discovered. These have the following synapomorphies as the Trionychidae; vermiculated shell sculpturing, loss of scale sulci, lack of peripheral bones, reduction of plastron, no osseous bridge between carapace and plastron. Furthermore, a reduction of eighth costal, and an indistinct sculpture and callosity on the hypoplastron are common characters in Perochelys, Gobiapalone, and Apalonina. The Adocidae, an extinct semi-aquatic turtle, is the most dominant among turtles in this locality and is composed of two different taxa. Nearly complete shell materials of Adocus sp. have been recovered based on hundreds of fragmentary shell materials and the newly collected shell assemblage of one individual (FPDM-V9173). Another adocid, gen. et sp. indet., is newly recognized on the basis of costals, peripherals, and a hypoplastron. This adocid is distinguished from Adocus sp. by the possession of the marginal scales limited within peripherals, and thinner shells. Discussion. Trionychoids from the Kitadani Formation were composed of dominant families in the Late Cretaceous of Asia and North America. Trionychoids from underlying Kuwajima and Akaiwa formations (Hauterivian to Barremian) of the Tetori Group are quite different. More primitive trionychoids such as \u201cTrionychoidea indet.\u201d and Kappachelys okurai have been unearthed from these formations. This stratigraphical succession suggests that morphological and paleoecological diversification among trionychoid turtles began during the Barremian or Aptian in East Asia. Fossil turtles from the Tetori Group could shed light on the early evolution of trionychoid families.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/949/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Fukui Prefectural Dinosaur Museum', u'Institute of Dinosaur Research, Fukui Prefectural University', u'SILS, Waseda University', u'Department of Science, Ibaraki University']]
[u'An integrated phylogenetic analysis of turtles', ['Anieli Pereira', 'Carlos Schrago'], u'2015-04-02', u'Background. Testudines is a reptilian order with unique morphological features among vertebrates. This order is currently divided into two suborders: Pleurodira and Cryptodira; which comprises approimately 14 extant families with 95 genera, about 320 species. Phylogenetic affinities below the family level remain largely unresolved. The main discrepancies among previous studies concern the position of the superfamily Trionychoidea and the families Chelydridae and Platystenidae. The recent improvement in combined phylogenetic inference and divergence time estimates, as well as the increased taxon sampling available in databases, prompted us to investigate their evolutionary relationships. Methods. In order to clarify the phylogenetic relatioships of Testudines, we inferred phylogenies from two datasets: (1) molecular dataset based on 12 genes, including 294 species; and (2) total evidence based on 12 genes plus 235 morphologic caracteres from the matrix of Sterli et al. (2013), including 28 extant and 69 extinct taxa. Maximum likelihood phylogenetic inference was performed with the data set partitioned into: (1) molecular nuclear data under GTR model of substitution, and (2) morphological data under Mk model. Statistical support for clades was assessed with 2000 nonparametric bootstrap replicates (BT). Results. Our results supported a split between Pleurodira and Cryptodira (BT > 97). In Cryptodira, we inferred an early split between Trionychoidea and all other Cryptodira, known as Durocryptodira (BT = 100). The monophyly of all families and superfamilies were recovered with high support (BT=100), except for the family Podocnemididae (BT=59). In both analyses, Chelydridae was recovered as sister-group to the superfamily Kinosternoidae (BT=99). With regard to Platysternidae, this monotypic asian family would split from Emydidae in the molecular phylogeny (BT = 81), whereas in the total analysis this split was between Emydidae and all remaining Testudinoidea: Emydidae + Geomydidae + Testudinidae. Discussion. All 14 families were represented in both analyses, although the molecular analysis contains 294 species-level taxa and total-evidence one has only 29 genus-level taxa. Pleurodira and Cryptodira were recovered as monophyletic as in most previous works. Trionychoidea was recovered as a clade within Cryptodira, in contrast to previous hypotheses, which placed this superfamily either as sister to Pleurodira or Cryptodira, or as sister group of all Testudines altogether. Chelydridae was recovered as sister-group of Kinosternoidae, whereas Platysternidae, a monotypic Asian family, was recovered as a member of Testudinoidae; although his position within the group was conflicting. This position of Platysternidae was the only conflict between crown groups found between our datasets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/948/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics'], [u'Departamento de Gen\xe9tica, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Four key areas for training the next-generation of global change researchers', ['Santonu Goswami', 'Xiaofeng Xu', 'Daniel Hayes'], u'2015-04-02', u'Human activities are changing the global environment in numerous ways, including increasing concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide, alteration of biogeochemical cycles and changing land cover types. These changes are increasing stresses on ecosystem goods and services, driving climate change and thus creating a few grand challenges for sustainability of the human society. Improving our understanding of these profound changes and grand challenges will help us in developing better predictive capabilities for the future. As these changes are expected to be long-lasting and we still do not have a complete understanding of their causes and consequences, the next generation of scientists needs to be properly trained in knowledge, methods and techniques in order to meet the research needs to tackle future challenges in global change ecology research. Here we discuss the challenges and opportunities in preparing the next-generation global change researchers according to four key aspects of training.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/947/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Climate Change Science Institute, Oak Ridge National Laboratory', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Texas at El Paso']]
[u"Parents' and children's emotions spanning the HIV disclosure process in Kenya", ['Grace Gachanja', 'Gary J Burkholder', 'Aimee Ferraro'], u'2015-04-01', u'Background: HIV disclosure from parent to child is challenging. While disclosure is expected to be emotional for parents and children, the total disclosure experience has not been described. The purpose of this study was to understand the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children in Kenya during the disclosure process. Methods: Phenomenological qualitative data were collected using in-depth semistructured interviews. Thirty four participants consisting of HIV-positive parents, children (infected and uninfected), and healthcare professionals (HCPs) were enrolled. Data analysis was performed using NVivo 8 and the Van Kaam method. Results: Pre-disclosure, parents were plagued with fear/worry of stigma, judgment, rejection, blame; and the reaction/consequences of disclosure on their children. Guilt and shame for bringing the illness into the home abounded. Children sensed, wondered, and worried about secrets within their homes. During disclosure, parents experienced catharsis, guilt, confusion, and panic when children reacted negatively. Children experienced shock, disbelief, anger, sadness, worry, depression, confusion, and catharsis from finally knowing what was wrong. Post-disclosure parents alternated between relief, guilt, and depression as their children\u2019s behavior changed due to disclosure. Children experienced unhappiness, depression, hopelessness, self-hate, and withdrawal. Recovery time varied lasting from a few hours to four months later; some children ultimately felt relief and self-acceptance. However, stress exposure caused disclosure emotions to reappear. Conclusion: HIV disclosure process is accompanied by alternating negative and positive feelings for both parents and children. To ease the process, HCPs should provide support services such as disclosure practice sessions/training, counseling, peer support groups, and stress management.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/946/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Health Sciences, Walden University', u'Senior Research Scholar and Contributing Faculty, Walden University', u'Walden University, College of Social and Behavioral Sciences']]
[u'The ever-changing face of Chinese Interpreting Studies: a social network analysis', ['Ziyun Xu'], u'2015-04-01', u'As the discipline of Translation and Interpreting Studies (TIS) has continued to expand rapidly over the past twenty years, scientometric research has been increasingly applied to analyze its trends and patterns. Drawing inspiration from Social Network Analysis, this study aims to quantify academic research impact and identify patterns of influence at an institutional and regional level in Chinese Interpreting Studies (CIS), by seeking answers to the following questions: Which are the most influential publications? Which institutions and regions carry the most weight? How have their respective levels of influence evolved over time? By analyzing a near-exhaustive corpus of 59,303 citations from CIS literature, the study reveals that most of the influential publications are monographs and theoretical in nature, though many Chinese textbooks on interpreting are also highly influential. It also finds that an institution\u2019s ranking in research productivity does not necessarily translate into high academic influence, and geographical proximity does not determine whether neighboring regions belong to the same research community.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/945/', ['Data Science', 'Databases', 'Digital Libraries', 'Social Computing'], [u'Intercultural Studies Group, Universitat Rovira i Virgili']]
[u'On the interpretation of results returned by branch-site models', ['Stephane Guindon'], u'2015-04-01', u'In a recent study, Murrell et al. (2015) compared the performance of several branch-site models of codon evolution. Their interpretation of results published by Lu & Guindon (2014) suggests that the stochastic branch-site model implemented in the software fitmodel is anti-conservative altogether, i.e., positive selection is detected more often than expected when analyzing sequences evolving under a mixture of neutrality and negative selection. I argue here that this presentation of the performance of fitmodel is misleading and should not deter evolutionary biologists from using this approach in exploratory analyses of selection patterns at the molecular level.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/944/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Statistics, The University of Auckland', u'LIRMM, CNRS']]
[u'Suffering and mental health among older people living in nursing homes - a mixed-methods study', ['Jorunn Drageset', 'Elin Dysvik', 'Birgitte Espehaug', 'Gerd Karin Natvig', 'Bodil Furnes'], u'2015-04-01', u'Background.  Knowledge about mixed-methods perspectives that examine anxiety, depression, social support, mental health and the phenomenon of suffering among cognitively intact NH residents is scarce. We aimed to explore suffering and mental health among cognitively intact NH residents.   Methods.  This study used a mixed-methods design to explore different aspects of the same phenomena of interest to gain a more comprehensive understanding. The qualitative core component comprised a qualitative interview from 18 nursing home residents (\u226565 years) about experiences related to pain, grief and loss. The supplementary component comprised interview from the same respondents using the SF-36 Health Survey subscales , the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and the Social Provisions Scale. Results.  The individual descriptions reveal suffering caused by painful experiences during life. The quantitative results indicated that symptoms of anxiety and depression were related to mental health and symptoms of anxiety were related to bodily pain and emotional role limitations. Attachment and social integration were associated with vitality and social functioning. Discussion.  To improve the situation, more attention should be paid to the residents\u2019 suffering related to anxiety, depression and psychosocial relations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/943/', ['Geriatrics', 'Nursing', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Palliative Care'], [u'Faculty of Health and Social Sciences, Bergen University College', u'Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen', u'Department of Health Studies, Faculty of Social Sciences, University of Stavanger']]
[u'Blood targeted proteomics: centrifugal filter sample preparation vs dilute-and-shoot', ['Tore Vehus', 'Ole Kristian Brandtzaeg', 'Elsa Lundanes', 'Steven Ray Wilson'], u'2015-04-01', u'Blood has a complex proteome with a huge span of protein abundances, and we are currently exploring sample preparation strategies addressing this potential challenge. We first evaluated the possibility to simply reduce complexity by fractionating blood samples (prior to targeted proteomics), using combinations of centrifugal filters that are promoted as having differing molar mass (M M ) selectivity. However, systematic fractionation was not possible, as the units had surprisingly unpredictable M M  filtration profiles. Hence, labeling implying M M selectivity of centrifugal filters shouldn\u2019t be taken literally. One filter combination (100+50K) however appeared to reduce human serum albumin (HSA) compared with much of the proteome (assessed using gel electrophoresis and staining). However, for our target protein beta-catenin, a \u201cdilute-and-shoot\u201d approach (without any attempt to remove high abundant proteins) was what enabled identification of beta-catenin in blood with nano liquid chromatography mass spectrometry (nano-LC-MS). Thus, minimal sample preparation can be an option in targeted blood proteomics. All blood samples prepared and analyzed (using ultrafast nano-LC-MS) were of considerable complexity, and we document the importance of using external standard spiking and minimum three MS/MS transitions to confirm the presence of target proteins.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/942/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biotechnology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Oslo']]
[u'Diabetes mellitus type 2 in hospitalized patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease', ['Evgeni Mekov', 'Yanina Slavova', 'Marianka Genova', 'Adelina Tsakova', 'Dimitar Kostadinov', 'Delcho Minchev', 'Dora Marinova'], u'2015-03-31', u'Diabetes mellitus (DM) affects 2-37% of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), with results being highly variable between studies. DM may also correlate with disease characteristics.The aim of this study was to examine the prevalence of DM and its correlation with comorbidities and COPD characteristics in patients with COPD admitted for exacerbation. 152 patients were studied for presence of DM. All of them were also assessed for vitamin D status and metabolic syndrome (MS). Data were gathered for smoking status and exacerbations during the last year. All patients completed CAT (COPD assessment test) and mMRC (Modified Medical Research Council Dyspnea scale) questionnaires and underwent spirometry. Duration of current hospital stay was recorded. 13.2% (20/152) of patients are taking medications for DM. Additional 21.7% (33/152) have newly discovered DM and 30.9% (47/152) have prediabetes. Only 34.2% of the studied patients do not have DM or prediabetes. 37% (40/108) of males have DM vs. 29,5% (13/44) of females (p=0.379). The prevalence of DM in this study is significantly higher when compared to an unselected Bulgarian population (12,8% in subjects over 45 years). 91% of patients with newly discovered diabetes had glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c)\u22656,5% suggesting prolonged hyperglycemia. There is a correlation between the presence of DM and MS (p=0.008). The presence of DM is associated with more severe exacerbations (hospitalizations) during the previous year (p=0.003) and a longer hospital stay (p=0.006). DM is not associated with reduced quality of life and worse pulmonary function. The patients with COPD admitted for exacerbation are at great risk for impaired glucose metabolism which is associated with worse COPD characteristics. The majority of the patients in this study are unaware of having DM.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/939/', ['Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Epidemiology', 'Internal Medicine', 'Respiratory Medicine'], [u"Clinical Center for Pulmonary Diseases, SHATPD 'Sveta Sofia'", u"Central Clinical Laboratory, UMHAT 'Alexandrovska'"]]
[u'High statistical noise limits conclusiveness of ranking results as a benchmarking tool for university management', ['Johannes Sorz', 'Martin Fieder', 'Bernard Wallner', 'Horst Seidler'], u'2015-03-31', u'Regression analyses of results from the Times Higher Education (THES)-Ranking and Shanghai University\u2019s Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU)-Ranking from 2010-2014 show fluctuations in the rank and score for lower scoring universities (below position 50) which lead to inconsistent \u201cup and downs\u201d in the total results, especially in the THES-Rankings. Furthermore year-to-year results do not correspond in THES- and ARWU-Rankings for universities below rank 50. We conclude that the observed fluctuations in the THES do not correspond to actual university performance and ranking results are thus of limited conclusiveness for the university management of lower scoring universities. We suggest that THE and ARWU alter their ranking procedure insofar as universities below position 50 should be ranked summarized only in groups of 25 or 50. The year to year changes in the ARWU scores are very small, so essential changes from year to year could not be expected, so therefore we argue to publish the ranking less frequently. Additionally, we argue for introducing a standardization process for ranking data in both rankings by using common suitable reference data to create calibration curves represented by non-linearity or linearity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/938/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Office of the Rectorate, University of Vienna', u'Department of Anthropology, University of Vienna']]
[u'Physical inactivity: results from a pilot study with Mexican youth using mobile accelerometry', ['Jimena Saldivar', 'Pedro Gomez', 'Martin Daumer'], u'2015-03-27', u'The obesity epidemic is a worldwide problem. Studies from the late 20th century show a consistent trend of increasing obesity prevalence on a global scale (Popkin & Doak, 1998). The OECD reports that overweight and obese people are now a majority amongst OECD countries, with Mexico having one of the highest obesity rates: as of 2012, 32.4% of the adult population was obese (Wilson, Devaux, & Cecchini, 2014). Obesity, in turn, is a risk factor to many of the most widespread chronic diseases: diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, and even cancer. We propose that a preventive strategy towards obesity will result in long-term and high impact results. Our strategy focuses on changing two significant lifestyle factors: diet and physical activity. The former is achieved by a comprehensive health education and habit-forming program; the latter, by personalized goal setting based on activity measurements with the use of mobile accelerometry. This work presents the physical activity results of a pilot study realized with Mexican youth. Within this study, we explore the use of the motivational package \u201cMove-your-health\xae\u201d alongside a series of workshops to validate the hypothesis that personalized goal setting leads to a measurable increase in physical activity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/937/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Global Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, Technische Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen', u'Department of Computer Science, Technische Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen', u'Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute']]
[u'Mapping the collaboration networks of biomedical research in Southeast Asia', ['Vincent Schubert R Malbas'], u'2015-03-27', u'Collaboration forms an integral aspect of global research endeavors, where co-authorship derived from bibliographic records provides the building block for mapping research collaboration networks. Bibliometric techniques and social network analysis tools were applied to measure the scope and depth of collaboration in biomedical research in Southeast Asia during the period 2005-2009. In particular, centrality scores and draw network maps were calculated for both country and institutional levels of aggregation. In the field of biomedical research, Thailand and Singapore are the most productive and collaborative countries in Southeast Asia during the period studied. Using network analysis, there was strong correlation of research productivity by a country or institution with the number of collaboration and its group influence, and weak correlation with maximal data flow within the research network. There were specific clusters of connected institutions in subnetworks for neoplasm, diabetes, and tuberculosis research. Given the observed frequency of regional collaboration in Southeast Asia, in comparison to foreign collaboration, it is argued that increasing the number of collaborations within Southeast Asia will help advance the region\u2019s efforts on domestic and regional health issues.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/936/', ['Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'University of the Philippine Manila, UP Philippine General Hospital']]
[u'Morphological diversity in tenrecs (Afrosoricida, Tenrecidae): comparing tenrec skull diversity to their closest relatives', ['Sive Finlay', 'Natalie Cooper'], u'2015-03-27', u'It is important to quantify patterns of morphological diversity to enhance our understanding of variation in ecological and evolutionary traits. Here, we present a quantitative analysis of morphological diversity in a family of small mammals, the tenrecs (Afrosoricida, Tenrecidae). Tenrecs are often cited as an example of an exceptionally morphologically diverse group. However, this assumption has not been tested quantitatively. We use geometric morphometric analyses of skull shape to test whether tenrecs are more morphologically diverse than their closest relatives, the golden moles (Afrosoricida, Chrysochloridae). Tenrecs occupy a wider range of ecological niches than golden moles so we predict that they will be more morphologically diverse. Contrary to our expectations, we find that tenrec skulls are only more morphologically diverse than golden moles when measured in lateral view. Furthermore, similarities among the species-rich Microgale tenrec genus appear to mask higher morphological diversity in the rest of the family. These results reveal new insights into the morphological diversity of tenrecs and highlight the importance of using quantitative methods to test qualitative assumptions about patterns of morphological diversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/811/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'School of Natural Sciences, Trinity College Dublin', u'Trinity Centre for Biodiversity Research, Trinity College Dublin']]
[u'A(a)LS: Ammonia-induced amyotrophic lateral sclerosis', ['Bhavin K Parekh'], u'2015-03-27', u'Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a dreadful, devastating and incurable motor neuron disease. Aetiologically, it is a multigenic, multifactorial and multiorgan disease. Despite intense research, ALS pathology remains unexplained. After the literature review, this paper posits a new integrative explanation. This framework proposes that ammonia neurotoxicity is a main player in ALS pathogenesis. According to this explanation, a combination of impaired ammonia removal\u2014 mainly because of impaired hepatic urea cycle dysfunction\u2014and increased ammoniagenesis\u2014 mainly because of impaired glycolytic metabolism in fast twitch skeletal muscle\u2014causes chronic hyperammonia in ALS. In the absence of neuroprotective calcium binding proteins (calbindin, calreticulin and parvalbumin), elevated ammonia\u2014a neurotoxin\u2014damages motor neurons. Ammonia-induced motor neuron damage occurs through multiple mechanisms such as macroautophagy-endolysosomal impairment, ER-stress, CDK5 activation, oxidative/nitrosative stress and neuroinflammation. Furthermore, the regional pattern of calcium binding proteins\u2019 loss, owing to either ER stress and/or impaired oxidative metabolism, determines clinical viabilities of ALS. Most importantly, this new framework can be generalised to explain other neurodegenerative disorders such as Huntington\u2019s disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/935/', ['Neurology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Science, University of Sheffield']]
[u'Fading sight of endemic Zapornia bicolor (Walden, 1872) in Eastern Himalayan Biodiversity Hotspot', ['Prakash Pradhan'], u'2015-03-27', u'A biosurvey was conducted in Samendu Lake and its surrounding wetlands of Eastern Himalayan Hill region of Mirik in Darjeeling in West Bengal, India. In the study, endemic and locally rare bird species Zapornia bicolor (Walden, 1872) was studied with point transect method regarding its population and habitat. Very low population (only 21 individuals) and habitat degradation (encroachment, pollution, invasive plant species) was observed at the study sites. Conservation measures for this species have been suggested.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/925/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Environment, Government of West Bengal, West Bengal Biodiversity Board']]
[u'A reappraisal of the Middle Triassic chirotheriid Chirotherium ibericus Nav\xe1s, 1906 (Iberian Range NE Spain), with comments on the Triassic tetrapod track biochronology of the Iberian Peninsula', ['Ignacio Diaz-Martinez', 'Diego Castanera', 'Jose Manuel J.M. Gasca', 'Jose Ignacio Canudo'], u'2015-03-26', u'Triassic vertebrate tracks are known from the beginning of the 19th century and have a worldwide distribution. Several Triassic track ichnoassemblages and ichnotaxa have a restricted stratigraphic range and are useful in biochronology and biostratigraphy. The record of Triassic tracks in the Iberian Peninsula has gone almost unnoticed although more than 25 localities have been described since 1897. In one of these localities, the naturalist Longinos Nav\xe1s described the ichnotaxon Chirotherium ibericus in 1906.The vertebrate tracks are in two sandy slabs from the Anisian (Middle Triassic) of the Moncayo massif (Zaragoza, Spain). In a recent revision, new, previously undescribed vertebrate tracks have been identified. The tracks considered to be C. ibericus as well as other tracks with the same morphology from both slabs have been classified as Chirotherium barthii. The rest of the tracks have been assigned to Chirotheriidae indet., Rhynchosauroides isp. and undetermined material. This new identification of C. barthii at the Nav\xe1s site adds new data to the Iberian record of this ichnotaxon, which is characterized by the small size of the tracks when compared with the main occurrences of this ichnotaxon elsewhere. As at the Nav\xe1s tracksite, the Anisian C. barthii-Rhynchosauroides ichnoassemblage has been found in other coeval localities in Iberia and worldwide. This ichnoassemblage belongs to the upper Olenekian-lower Anisian interval according to previous biochronological proposals. Analysis of the Triassic Iberian record of tetrapod tracks is uneven in terms of abundance over time. From the earliest Triassic to the latest Lower Triassic the record is very scarce, with Rhynchosauroides being the only known ichnotaxon. Rhynchosauroides covers a wide temporal range and gives poor information for biochronology. The record from the uppermost Lower Triassic to the Middle Triassic is abundant. The highest ichnodiversity has been reported for the Anisian with an assemblage composed of Dicynodontipus, Procolophonichnium, Rhynchosauroides, Rotodactylus, Chirotherium, Isochirotherium, Coelurosaurichnus and Paratrisauropus. The Iberian track record from the Anisian is coherent with the global biochronology proposed for Triassic tetrapod tracks. Nevertheless, the scarcity of track occurrences during the late Olenekian and Ladinian prevents analysis of the corresponding biochrons. Finally, although the Iberian record for the Upper Triassic is not abundant, the presence of Eubrontes, Anchisauripus and probably Brachychirotherium is coherent with the global track biochronology as well. Thus, the Triassic track record in the Iberian Peninsula matches the expected record for this age on the basis of a global biochronological approach, supporting the idea that vertebrate Triassic tracks are a useful tool in biochronology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/933/', ['Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Instituto de Investigaci\xf3n en Paleobiolog\xeda y Geolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional de R\xedo Negro. CONICET', u'Grupo Aragosaurus-IUCA. \xc1rea de Paleontolog\xeda, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Zaragoza']]
[u'Of mice, macaques and men: scaling of virus dynamics and immune responses', ['Christian L Althaus'], u'2015-03-26', u'In this Opinion piece, I argue that the dynamics of viruses and the cellular immune response depend on the body size of the host. I use allometric scaling theory to interpret observed quantitative differences in the infection dynamics of lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) in mice (Mus musculus), simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) in rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) in humans. There are indications that viral replication and the proliferation of CD8+ T cell responses are slower in larger animals. Whether this influences the ability of the cellular immune responses to eradicate viruses during the acute phase of an infection remains unclear, however.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/803/', ['Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Virology', 'Immunology'], [u'Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (ISPM), University of Bern']]
[u'Positive catch and economic benefits of periodic octopus fishery closures: do effective, narrowly targeted actions \u2018catalyze\u2019 broader management?', ['Thomas Oliver', 'Kirsten LL Oleson', 'Hajanaina H.A.R Ratsimbazafy', 'Daniel Raberinary', 'Sophie Benbow', 'Alasdair Harris'], u'2015-03-26', u'Eight years of octopus fishery records from southwest Madagascar reveal significant positive impacts from 36 periodic closures on: (a) fishery catches and (b) village fishery income, such that (c) economic benefits from increased landings outweigh costs of foregone catch. Closures covered ~20% of a village\u2019s fished area and lasted 2-7 months. Fishery catches from each closed site: Octopus landings and catch per unit effort (CPUE) significantly increased in the 30 days following a closure\u2019s reopening, relative to the 30 days before a closure (landings: +718%, p<0.0001; CPUE: +87%, p<0.0001; n=36). Open-access control sites showed no before/after change when they occurred independently of other management (\u201cno ban\u201d, n=17/36). On the other hand, open-access control sites showed modest catch increases when they extended a 6-week seasonal fishery shutdown (\u201cban\u201d, n=19/36). The seasonal fishery shutdown affects the entire region, so confound all potential control sites. Fishery income in implementing villages: In villages implementing a closure, octopus fishery income doubled in the 30 days after a closure, relative to 30 days before (+132%, p<0.001, n=28). Control villages not implementing a closure showed no increase in income after \u201cno ban\u201d closures and modest increases after \u201cban\u201d closures. Villages did not show a significant decline in income during closure events. Net economic benefits from each closed site: Landings in closure sites generated more revenue than simulated landings assuming continued open-access fishing at that site (27/36 show positive net earnings; mean +$305/closure; mean +57.7% monthly). Benefits accrued faster than local fishers\u2019 time preferences during 17-27 of the 36 closures. High reported rates of illegal fishing during closures correlated with poor economic performance. We discuss the implications of our findings for broader co-management arrangements, particularly for catalyzing more comprehensive management.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/932/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Hawaii', u'Blue Ventures Conservation', u'Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Management, University of Hawaii']]
[u'Multi-scale environmental filters and niche partitioning govern the distributions of riparian vegetation guilds', ['Nate Hough-Snee', 'Brian Laub', 'David M. Merritt', 'A. Lexine Long', 'Lloyd L. Nackley', 'Brett B. Roper', 'Joseph M Wheaton'], u'2015-03-26', u'Across landscapes, riparian plant communities assemble under varying levels of disturbance, environmental stress, and resource availability, leading to the development of distinct riparian life-history guilds. Identifying the environmental filters that exert selective pressures and favor specific vegetation guilds within riverscapes is a critical step in setting baseline expectations for how riparia may respond to the environmental conditions anticipated under future global change scenarios. In this study, we ask (1) what functional riparian plant guilds exist across two major North American river basins? (2) What environmental filters shape riparian guild distributions? (3) Does resource partitioning between guilds influence guild distributions and co-occurrence? We identified riparian plant guilds, examining relationships between regional climate and watershed hydrogeomorphic characteristics, stream channel form, and co-occurring riparian guilds. Woody species composition was measured at 703 streams and each species\u2019 traits were extracted from a database in five functional areas: life form, persistence and growth, reproduction, and resource use. We clustered species into guilds by morphological characteristics and attributes related to environmental tolerances, modeling guild distributions as a product of environmental filters (stressors and resources) and guild co-existence. We identified five guilds, i) a tall, deeply rooted, long-lived, evergreen tree guild, ii) a xeric disturbance tolerant shrub guild, iii) a hydrophytic, thicket-forming shrub guild, iv) a low-statured, shade-tolerant, understory shrub guild and v) a flood tolerant, mesoriparian shrub guild. Guilds were most strongly discriminated by one another species\u2019 rooting depth, canopy height and potential to resprout and grow following biomass-removing disturbance. Hydro-climatic variables including precipitation, watershed area, water table depth, and channel form attributes reflective of hydrologic regime were predictors of guilds whose life history strategies had affinity or aversion to flooding, drought, and fluvial disturbance. Biotic interactions excluded guilds with divergent life history strategies and/or allowed for the co-occurrence of guilds that partition resources differently in the same environment. We conclude that riparian guilding provides a useful framework for assessing how disturbance and bioclimatic gradients shape riparian functional plant diversity. Multiple processes should be considered when the riparian response guilds framework is to be used as a land-use decision-support tool framework', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/653/', ['Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Watershed Sciences and Ecology Center, Utah State University', u'National Stream and Aquatic Ecology Center, USDA Forest Service', u'Graduate Degree Program in Ecology, Colorado State University', u'Southwest Biological Sciences Center, United States Geological Survey', u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California Davis', u'National Stream and Aquatic Ecology Center, USDA Forest Service']]
[u'Dynamics of chlorophyll and N concentration on e0 and e3 leaves of maize hybrids in winter in subtropical region', ['Nav Raj Adhikari', 'Surya Kant Ghimire', 'Shrawan Kumar Sah', 'Keshab Babu Koirala'], u'2015-03-26', u'National maize productivity is very low in Nepal. To increase its productivity, hybrid maize breeding and their cultivation are indispensible. For it, fifteen newly bred single cross hybrids of yellow maize were examined to select superior high GYHs (grain yielding hybrids) from the standpoint grain yielding potentiality. In addition, dynamics of chl, N conc and red light absorbance-transmittance (RAT) have also examined from the standpoint of chl, N conc and RAT measure and their effects on grain yield (GY). For it, a trial of RCBD experiment was conducted in open field in winter in subtropical region in Nepal. Seeds were sown on October 3, 2012 plot in two row plot area of 1.4 x 3.0 m2. After anthesis, observations of chl and N conc implying RAT (red light absorbance-transmittance) SPAD (Soil Plant Analysis and Development) measures were taken from the topmost ear (e0 or E0) and third (e3 or E3) leaf above the e0 leaf in ten days interval during entire grain filling (GF). SPAD measures were transformed to total chl and N conc. E0 leaf has been found more grain yield determining than e3 leaf and terminal GF has been found more determining than early GF from the standpoint of correlation coefficients (r ) of GYs with chl, N conc and SPAD measure. From pooled variance analysis; SPAD and chl conc were not significant different in the two leaves and among the hybrids (Hybrids x Leaves x Ages). But, the SPAD and chl conc were significant different among the two leaves and ages (Leaves x Ages) irrespective of the hybrids. Different to the SPAD and chl conc, N conc was significant different in the leaves among the hybrids with respect to ages of the plants among the fifteen hybrids (Hybrids x Leaves x Ages). Thirteen top high GYHs 8, 12, 11, 13, 5, 6, 10, 1, 7, 14, 2, 9 and 15 were non-significant different from the standpoint of GY. The SPAD measures were in the non-significant range of 51-55 in e0 leaf in the duration from 95 to 125 d among the fifteen hybrids (FHs). Among the top four high GYHs 8, 12, 11 and 13; hybrid 11 lost chl and N from e0 leaf significantly on 135th d relative to the most of the hybrids. It means that the hybrid 11 could efficiently degrade N containing soluble protein and chl even on e0 leaf relatively. Top listed five high GYHs 8, 12, 11, 5 and 6 (except 13) constantly maintained chl and N conc implying SPAD on the e0 leaf up to the 135th d. In addition, it implies that these five hybrids sent newly up-taken N to kernels without degradation of the proteins and chl from the e0 leaf till the age of 135 d. High GYH 8 had degraded soluble proteins and enzymes and chl conc on e3 leaf and mobilized the degraded N to the kernels more efficiently from the e3 leaf. It is not necessary that maize hybrids must constantly maintain soluble proteins and chl conc during most of early to mid GF for high GY. Instead, diagnostic decline of the soluble protein and chl conc during early to mid GF also accelerate GF phenomena.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/850/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Plant Breeding, Institute of Agriculture and Animal Science (IAAS), Tribhuvan University', u'Department of Plant Breeding and Genetics, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'Department of Agronomy, Faculty of Agriculture, Agriculture and Forestry University', u'National Maize Research Program (NMRP), Nepal Agriculture Research Council (NARC)']]
[u'Is grazing exclusion effective in restoring vegetation in degraded alpine grasslands in Tibet, China?', ['Yan Yan', 'Xuyang Lu'], u'2015-03-26', u'Overgrazing is considered one of the key disturbance factors that results in alpine grassland degradation in Tibet. Grazing exclusion by fencing has been widely used as an approach to restore degraded grassland s in Tibet since 2004. Is the grazing exclusion management strategy effective for the vegetation restoration of degraded alpine grasslands? Three alpine grassland types were selected in Tibet to investigate the effect of grazing exclusion on plant community structure and biomass. Our results showed that species biodiversity indicators, including the Pielou evenness index, the Shannon-Wiener diversity index, and the Simpson dominance index, did not significantly change under grazing exclusion conditions. In contrast, the total vegetation cover, the mean vegetation height of the community, and the aboveground biomass were significantly higher in the grazing exclusion grasslands than in the free grazed grasslands. These results indicated that grazing exclusion is an effective measure for maintaining community stability and improving aboveground vegetation growth in alpine grasslands. However, the statistical analysis showed that the alpine grassland type plays a more important role than grazing exclusion in which influence on vegetation in alpine grasslands because the alpine grassland type had a significant effect on vegetation indicators but grazing exclusion not. In addition, because the results of the present study come from short term (5-7 years) grazing exclusion, it is still uncertain whether these improvements will be continuable if grazing exclusion is continuously implemented. Therefore, the assessments of the ecological effects of the grazing exclusion management strategy on degraded alpine grasslands in Tibet are still need long term continued research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/931/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'Key Laboratory of Mountain Surface Processes and Ecological Regulation, Institute of Mountain Hazards and Environment']]
[u'The impact of the fossils in molecular clocks: an example using chelid turtles', ['Juan Alfredo Holley', 'Nestor Guillermo Basso', 'Juliana Sterli'], u'2015-03-25', u'Background. The clade Chelidae (Testudines, Pleurodira) is a group of fresh water turtles with representatives in Australasia and South America. Its diversity of extant and fossil species is characterized by two recognized morphotypes: the long-necked and the short-necked chelids. So far, the phylogenies constructed over Chelidae differ depending on the information source. While morphology recovers one monophyletic group of long-necked chelids (with South American and Australasian species), the molecular data split the group into South American and Australasian chelids, both as monophyletic sister groups and containing long-necked species. The consequences of this conflict imply the emergence of long-necked chelids (i) one time before the final breakup of Southern Gondwana (\u2245 35 Mya) or (ii) independently after this event.\nMethods. Using BEAST, a set of molecular clock analyses was performed. Seven of these analyses correspond to the molecular hypothesis and thirteen to the morphological hypothesis. So, ten fossils were used as calibration points in different combinations for each hypothesis. The results were statistically compared performing ANOVA and the global similarity was inspected by a hierarchical cluster analysis (HCA).\nResults. Molecular hypothesis: all the analyses produced an age of the origin of Chelidae, and rising of long neck, older than 35 Mys. Divergence times in the South American clade were generally older than the observed in the Australasian clade. The result of the HCA was: analyses 2, 4 and 5 form a group and the analyses 3, 6 and 7 form another group; the analysis 1 is close related to this last. Morphological hypothesis: the origin of the clade of long-necked chelids predated the 35 Mys in all the analyses except one; however the Chelodina group resulted younger than this age in all the analyses. The HCA yielded two main groups of molecular clock analyses (1, 3, 7, 8, 9, 13 and 2, 4, 6, 10, 11, 12) and one analysis (5) clearly separated of these two. The ANOVA resulted in significant differences for all estimated nodes in both phylogenetic hypotheses.\nDiscussion. Our set of molecular clock analyses suggests an early diversification of the chelid turtles and the raising of the long-necked chelids before the final breakup of Southern Gondwana. However, the appearance of this trait one time or as evolutionary convergence still depends on which phylogenetic scenario is taken into account. Furthermore, our results indicate that the number of calibration points not necessarily improve the precision of estimated nodes. Instead the \u201cquality\u201d of the fossils used as calibrations and its position in the phylogeny, have appreciable impact not only over this parameter, but also over the global evolutionary rate along the tree.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/930/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Laboratorio de Biolog\xeda Molecular, Instituto de Diversidad y Evoluci\xf3n Austral (IDEA-CONICET)', u'CONICET-Museo Paleontol\xf3gico Egidio Feruglio']]
[u'A unified platform for outcome measures and exergames with 3D accelerometry', ['Timur Nuritdinow', 'Christian Lederer', 'Martin Daumer'], u'2015-03-25', u'Mobile accelerometry is more and more being used in clinical trials as a tool to measure outcomes related to physical activity. However, it is still difficult to integrate exercise therapy in controlled clinical trials. We want to explore the option to use a unified platform to both measure outcome and prescribe and monitor exercise therapy using the actibelt technology platform. We present a prototype based on the actibelt platform that allows to use the wearable device as a mouse controller for a large set of potentially interesting games. Playing an exergame a person is encouraged to increase its level of daily motion while engaging in an activity that is perceived as interesting and fun, thus, providing an intrinsic motivation. Studies suggest that exergaming can be compared to light or moderate physical activity considering the heart rate, oxygen consumption and energy expenditure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/929/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, Technische Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen', u'Department of Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute']]
[u'\u201dGait-&Balance-Box;\u201d', ['Martin Daumer', 'Karl Muller'], u'2015-03-25', u'The \u201dGait-&Balance-Box\u201d suggests a standardization for clinical walk and balance tests with the aim to improve quality, applicability and comparability. Heart of the patient monitoring is the actibeltblue, an autonomous wireless accelerometer that is worn like a belt. The actibelt sends the acceleration data via blue-tooth to a tablet that provides direct analysis of the human motion. The box can be quickly unfolded into a mobile gait lab using 2 light barriers to perform walking test. The acceleration measurement plus the duration for the fixed walking distance are combined to an enhanced 4-meter walk test.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/928/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute', u'Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, Technische Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen']]
[u'Spatial analysis of phylogenetic community structure: New version of a classical method', ['Carlo Ricotta', 'Eszter EA Ari', 'Giuliano Bonanomi', 'Francesco Giannino', 'Duncan Heathfield', 'Stefano Mazzoleni', 'Janos Podani'], u'2015-03-25', u'The increasing availability of phylogenetic information facilitates the use of evolutionary methods in community ecology to reveal the importance of evolution in the species assembly process. However, while several methods have been applied to a wide range of communities across different spatial scales with the purpose of detecting non-random phylogenetic patterns, the spatial aspects of phylogenetic community structure have received far less attention. Accordingly, the question for this study is: can point pattern analysis be used for revealing the phylogenetic structure of multi-species assemblages? We introduce a new individual-centered procedure for analyzing the scale-dependent phylogenetic structure of multi-species point patterns based on digitized field data. The method uses nested circular plots with increasing radii drawn around each individual plant and calculates the mean phylogenetic distance between the focal individual and all individuals located in the circular ring delimited by two successive radii. This scale-dependent value is then averaged over all individuals of the same species and the observed mean is compared to a null expectation with permutation procedures. The method detects particular radius values at which the point pattern of a single species exhibits maximum deviation from the expectation towards either phylogenetic aggregation or segregation. Its performance is illustrated using data from a grassland community in Hungary and simulated point patterns. The proposed method can be extended to virtually any distance function for species pairs, such as functional distances.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/927/', ['Biodiversity', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u"Department of Environmental Biology, University of Rome 'La Sapienza'", u'Department of Genetics, E\xf6tv\xf6s Lor\xe1nd University', u'Department of Forestry and Environmental Sciences, University of Naples \u2018Federico II\u2019', u'Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Naples \u2018Federico II\u2019', u'World in a Box', u'Department of Plant Systematics, Ecology and Theoretical Biology, E\xf6tv\xf6s University']]
[u'A new large scale global morphological phylogeny of turtles', ['Marton Rabi', 'Juliana Sterli', 'Walter G Joyce'], u'2015-03-25', u'We developed a new global turtle matrix using morphological characters to test the age of the turtle crown and to assess the origin and phylogeny of various controversial clades along the turtle stem and within Pan-Cryptodira.\nWe significantly increased both character and taxon sampling relative to earlier global matrices with special emphasis on Jurassic and Cretaceous stem-cryptodires. Further improvements included the complete, observation-based re-scoring of all previously sampled taxa and the reduction of subjective character assignments with the help of consensusbuilding between the members of our working group for each scoring.\nWe confirm the previous conclusion that the turtle crown has an extensive phylogenetic stem and that the age of the crown is approximately Middle Jurassic in age. The addition of new fossils allows reinterpreting purported Laurasian meiolaniforms as part of a paraphyletic grade of Mesozoic Laurasian basal turtles, including Solemydidae, Sichuanchelyidae, and Kallokibotion bajazidi. A paraphyletic Cryptodira with a deeply nested Pleurodira (as signaled by some recent morphological and molecular analyses) is not recovered when only stem-pleurodires are included in the analysis. This demonstrates conclusively that the false signal is caused by marked morphological convergences between crown cryptodires and pleurodires. We find little or no support for the chelydrid affinities of Platysternon megacephalum which had previously been inferred by morphological analyses, in conspicuous contrast with molecular results. Similarly, little support remains for a Trionychia-Kinosternoidea clade, which had been consistently recovered in earlier morphological studies, again in contrast with molecular phylogenies. Contrary to previous hypotheses, our analysis advocates sea turtle monophyly and argue for a diverse Cretaceous stem, including bizarre, giant forms belonging to the extinct clade Protostegidae. Derived members of Protostegidae nevertheless show remarkable similarities with dermochelyids as a result of parallel evolution.\nDespite increased taxon and character sampling, we are still unable to fully replicate the molecular phylogeny of turtles. This is frustrating because the stratigraphic distribution of fossil turtles is more consistent with molecular results. The likely reason for this disparity comes from the high degree of homoplasy in turtles, notable gaps in the fossil record, and the rapid and early diversification of extant turtle lineages soon after the appearance of the turtle crown. The latter is also suggested by the overall good support at the end of the branches and low resolution at the nodes connecting their stem. Future fossil discoveries, particularly from the Jurassic of Gondwana and Southeast Asia, will likely help resolve these issues. In the meantime, we support employing the consensual molecular scaffold for global morphological analyses of turtles.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/926/', ['Biodiversity', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Geosciences, University of T\xfcbingen', u'Hungarian Academy  of Sciences, ELTE-MTA Lend\xfclet Dinosaur Research Group', u'CONICET \u2013  Paleontological Museum Egidio Feruglio', u'Department of Geosciences, University of Fribourg']]
[u'Trans-species polymorphism at antimicrobial innate immunity cathelicidin genes of Atlantic cod and related species', ['Katrin Halldorsdottir', 'Einar Arnason'], u'2015-03-25', u"Natural selection, the most important force in evolution, comes in three forms. Negative purifying selection removes deleterious variation and maintains adaptations. Positive directional selection fixes beneficial variants, producing new adaptations. Balancing selection maintains variation in a population. Important mechanisms of balancing selection include heterozygote advantage, frequency-dependent advantage of rarity, and local and fluctuating episodic selection. A rare pathogen gains an advantage because host defenses are predominantly effective against prevalent types. Similarly, a rare immune variant gives its host an advantage because the prevalent pathogens cannot escape the host's apostatic defense. Due to the stochastic nature of evolution, neutral variation may accumulate on genealogical branches, but trans-species polymorphisms are rare under neutrality and are strong evidence for balancing selection. Balanced polymorphism maintains diversity at the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) in vertebrates. The Atlantic cod is missing genes for both MHC-II and CD4, vital parts of the adaptive immune system. Nevertheless, cod are healthy in their ecological niche, maintaining large populations that support major commercial fisheries. Innate immunity is of interest from an evolutionary perspective, particularly in taxa lacking adaptive immunity. Here, we analyze extensive amino acid and nucleotide polymorphisms of the cathelicidin gene family in Atlantic cod and closely related taxa. There are three major clusters, Cath1, Cath2, and Cath3, that we consider to be paralogous genes. There is extensive nucleotide and amino acid allelic variation between and within clusters. The major feature of the results is that the variation clusters by alleles and not by species in phylogenetic trees and discriminant analysis of principal components. The three groups show trans-species polymorphism that is older than speciation and that is evidence for balancing selection maintaining the variation. Using Bayesian and likelihood methods positive and negative selection is evident at sites in the conserved part of the genes and, to a larger extent, in the active part which also shows episodic diversifying selection, further strengthening the argument for balancing selection.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/924/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology', 'Immunology'], [u'Institute of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Iceland']]
[u'The seasonal reproduction number of dengue fever impacts of climate on transmission', ['Sittisede Polwiang'], u'2015-03-25', u'Background: The dengue fever is a mosquito-borne viral disease and a regular epidemic in Thailand. The peak of the dengue epidemic period is around June to August during the rainy season. It is believed that the climate is an important factor for dengue transmission.Method: A mathematical model for vector-host infectious disease was used to calculate the impacts of climate to the transmission of dengue virus. In this study, the data of climate and dengue fever cases were derived from Chiang Mai during 2004-2014, Thailand. The value of seasonal reproduction number was calculated to evaluate the potential, severity and persistence of dengue infection.Results: The mosquito population was increasing exponentially from the start of the rainy season in early May and reached its the peak in late June. The simulations suggest that the greatest potential for the dengue transmission occurs when the temperature is 28.7\xbaC. The seasonal reproduction numbers were larger than one from late March to end of August and reaching the peak in June. The highest incidences occurred in August due to the delay of transmission humans-mosquito-humans. Increasing mean temperature by 1\xbaC, the number of incidences increases 30%. However, a very high or very low temperature reduces the number of infection.Discussion and Conclusion: The results show that the dengue infection depends on the seasonal variation of the climate. The rainfall provides places for the mosquitoes to lay eggs and develop to adult stage. The temperature plays an important role in the life cycle and behavior of the mosquitoes. A very high or very low temperature reduces the risk of the dengue infection.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/756/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Faculty of Science, Silapakorn University']]
[u'Employment status and sick-leave following obesity surgery: a five-year prospective cohort study', ['John Roger Andersen', 'Ulrikke  Herns', 'Karl Ove Hufthammer', 'Villy Vage'], u'2015-03-24', u'Background. Severe obesity is a risk factor for lower participation in paid work, but whether employment increases and sick leave decreases after obesity surgery is not well documented. Methods. We assessed 224 Norwegian patients with severe obesity (mean age: 40; mean BMI: 49; 61% female) regarding employment status (working versus not working) and the number of days of sick leave during the preceding 12 months, before and five years after obesity surgery (75% follow-up rate). Logistic regression analysis was used to study preoperative predictors of employment status after surgery. Results. There were no change in the employment rate over time (54% versus 58%), but the number of days of sick leave per year was significantly reduced, from a mean of 63 to a mean of 26, and from a median of 36 to a median of 4. Most of this change was attributable to patients with zero days of sick leave, which increased from 25% to 41%. Being female, older, having low education level, receiving disability pension and not being employed before obesity surgery were important risk factors for not being employed after obesity surgery. The type of obesity surgery, BMI and marital status were not useful predictors. Conclusions. Our findings suggest that that undergoing obesity surgery is not associated with a higher rate of employment, although it may reduce the number of days of sick leave. Additional interventions are likely needed to influence the employment status of these patients. The significant preoperative predictors of not being employed in this study provide suggestions for further research .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/923/', ['Epidemiology', 'Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Nursing', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Faculty of health studies, Sogn og Fjordane University College', u'Centre of Health Research, F\xf8rde Hospital Trust', u'Department of Research and Development, Haukeland University Hospital', u'Centre for Clinical Research, Haukeland University Hospital', u'Department of Surgery, Voss Hospital, Helse Bergen Health Trust']]
[u'Predicting the oligomeric states of fluorescent proteins', ['Saw Simeon', 'Watshara Shoombuatong', 'Likit Preeyanon', 'Virapong Prachayasittikul', 'Chanin Nantasenamat'], u'2015-03-24', u'Currently, monomeric fluorescent proteins (FP) are ideal markers for protein tagging. The prediction of oligomeric states is helpful for enhancing live biomedical imaging. Computational prediction of FP oligomeric states can accelerate the effort of protein engineering to create monomeric FPs by saving time and money. To the best of our knowledge, this study represents the first computational model for predicting and analyzing FP oligomerization directly from their amino acid sequences. An exhaustive dataset consisting of 397 unique FP oligomeric states was compiled from the literature. FP were described by 3 classes of protein descriptors including amino acid composition, dipeptide composition and physicochemical properties. The oligomeric states of FP was predicted using decision tree (DT) algorithm and results demonstrated that DT provided robust performance with accuracies in ranges of 79.97-81.72% and 80.76-82.63% for the internal (e.g. 10-fold cross-validation) and external sets, respectively. This approach was also benchmarked with other common machine learning algorithms such as artificial neural network, support vector machine and random forest. A thorough analysis of amino acid sequence features was conducted to provide informative insights into FP oligomerization, which may aid in engineering novel monomeric fluorescent proteins. The following differentiating characteristics of monomeric and oligomeric fluorescent proteins were derived from DT: (i) substitution of any amino acid to Glu led to the reduction of aggregated proteins and (ii) oligomerization of FP appears to be stabilized by several hydrophobic contacts. Datasets and R source code are available at http://dx.doi.org/10.6084/m9.figshare.1348575.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/922/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Center of Data Mining and Biomedical Informatics, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University', u'Department of Clinical Microbiology and Applied Technology, Faculty of Medical Technology, Mahidol University']]
[u'Conducting perception research over the Internet: a tutorial review', ['Andy T Woods', 'Carlos Velasco', 'Carmel A. Levitan', 'Xiaong Wan', 'Charles Spence'], u'2015-03-24', u'This article provides an overview of the literature on the use of internet-based testing to address questions in perception research. Internet-based testing has several advantages over in-lab research, including the ability to reach a relatively broad set of participants and to quickly and inexpensively collect large amounts of empirical data. In many cases, the quality of online data appears to match that collected in laboratory research. Generally speaking, online participants tend to be more representative of the population at large than laboratory based participants. There are, though, some important caveats, when it comes to collecting data online. It is obviously much more difficult to control the exact parameters of stimulus presentation (such as display characteristics) in online research. There are also some thorny ethical considerations that need to be considered by experimenters. Strengths and weaknesses of the online approach, relative to others, are highlighted, and recommendations made for those researchers who might be thinking about conducting their own studies using this increasingly-popular approach to research in the psychological sciences.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/921/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Ethical Issues', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Xperiment', u'Department of Cognitive Science, Occidental College', u'Tsinghua University']]
[u'Juvenile specimens of Araripemys Price, 1973 (Pelomedusoides, Araripemydidae) from the Crato Formation, Araripe Basin', ['Gustavo R Oliveira', 'Alexander W. A. Kellner'], u'2015-03-22', u'Background. The Santana Group of Araripe Basin has an important turtle fauna in which five monotypic genera are formally described, all from the Albian Romualdo Formation. Araripemys barretoi is the unique identified species that has been found in the Crato and Romualdo formations of the Santana Group. Herein, we report two juvenile araripemydid provided from the light-beige colored laminated limestone from the Crato Formation: AMNH 30651 and MN 4893-V. Methods. The specimens have been analyzed through traditional paleontological methods. For taxonomic and morphological identification were realized comparisons with living and extinct taxa, moreover, specialized bibliography and photos. Results. The small size of the specimens (among 40-50 mm) and its poor degree of ossification with costal bones not fused suggest that both are juvenile individuals. AMNH 30651 is identified as Araripemys cf. barretoi and can be distinguished to other turtles from Araripe Basin based on the follow characteristics: (1) long vertebral body; (2) long neck; (3) the angle of curvature of the axillary and inguinal buttress; (4) mesoplastron absent; and (5) arrow-shaped unguals. MN 4893-V is also identified as Araripemys cf. barretoi and can be distinguished from the other turtles from Araripe based on characteristics 2, 3, and 5 (described above) plus (6) a nearly oval skull in dorsal view with closely spaced orbits; and (7) a long vertebral body. Discussion. Juvenile turtles are rare in the fossil record. Although the description of these two incomplete specimens does not completely elucidate the ontogeny of this taxon, the analysis of these specimens yield relevant information about taxonomic characters such as: skull with nearly oval shape in dorsal view with closely spaced orbits; long vertebral body; long neck; the angle of curvature of the axillary notch; and unguals arrow-shaped. The small size of the specimens (40-50 mm) and its poor degree of ossification of unfused costal bones indicates that both are very young individuals. Some researchers postulate that the paleoenvironment of the Crato Formation was similar to mangroves, which is corroborated by the presence of juvenile turtles and fishes, anurans and insects. Araripemys barretoi was also recorded in the Romualdo Formation, which represents a lagoon. The fact that this turtle is found in those quite distinct paleoenvironments suggests that this species could be tolerant to distinct salinities levels.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/919/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Department of Biology, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco', u'Departamento de Geologia e Paleontologia, Museu Nacional / Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'An almost complete side-necked turtle shell (Pelomedusoides, Bothremydidae) from the Maria Farinha Formation (Paleogene, Paleocene), Para\xedba Basin, NE Brazil', ['Gustavo R. Oliveira', 'Jessyca S. Rezende', 'Carina M. Figueiredo', 'Sergio Alex K. Azevedo', 'Diogenes A. Campos'], u'2015-03-22', u'Background. Pelomedusoides turtles are an important group in extant fauna of northern South America, Africa and Madagascar, which have a long fossil record, with numerous records through the Cretaceous, Paleogene, and Neogene in South America. One of high- diversified clade of this linage is Bothremydidae, and its record extends from Early Cretaceous (Barreminan) to Eocene. So far, no named species from the Paleocene of Brazil were described. The single Paleocene record is a peripheral bone associated to pelomedusoid turtle from the Maria Farinha Formation (Danian), of Pernambuco State. Herein we present an almost complete shell (DGM 1310LE) from the Maria Farinha Formation, Para\xedba Basin, which is the first early Paleocene South American bothremydid turtle. Methods. The new specimen have been analyzed through traditional paleontological methodology. We performed a CT scan in DGM 1310LE in search for internal bones and structures. In addition, we scored DGM 1310LE in a modified data matrix of Pelomedusoides, with 43 taxa and 175 characters, and the phylogenetic analysis were performed in TNT. Branch supports were provided using bootstrap and Bremer support. Results. The new specimen is the most complete turtle coming of Maria Farinha Formation. DGM 1310LE has seven neurals, and an incomplete neural series to suprapygal, as the most Podocnemidoidae turtles. Our preliminary phylogeny resulted in 4 most parsimonious trees of 428 steps. The strict consensus tree places DGM 1310LE as a member of Bothremydidae, which was recovered in a polytomy together with early Cretaceous turtle Galianemys. 5th Turtle Evolution Symposium Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil | July, 2015 Discussion. Despite of the almost complete nature of the DGM 1310LE, we were unable to determine if DGM 1310LE is a new species due to the lack of diagnostic characteristics. However, this new Paleocene specimen is important because it expands the record of Bothremydidade to the Cenozoic of Brazil; up to date only the Early Cretaceous genera Cearachelys and Atolchelys were recognized. Moreover, Bothremydidae shows a great diversification, occupying marine environments as well as diverse freshwater environments. Since the depositional context of the Maria Farinha Formation is considered a shallow marine environment (continental shelf), including the presence of marine taxa such as lamniforms sharks (e.g. Cretolamna appendiculata) and the dyrosaurid crocodyliform Guarinisuchus munizi, the presence of a Bothremydidae in these strata confirm the great paleoecological diversification of this family, varying from near-shore marine to freshwater environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/918/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, Universidade Federal Rural de Pernambuco', u'Departamento de Geologia e Paleontologia, Museu Nacional / Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro', u'Museu de Ci\xeancias da Terra, Servi\xe7o Geol\xf3gico do Brasil - Companhia de  Pesquisa de Recursos Minerais']]
[u'Unique method for analysing pressure distribution accross the knuckles during boxing', ['Mike Loosemore', 'Joseph Lightfoot', 'Jay Meswania', 'Chris Beardsley'], u'2015-03-22', u'Objectives: The hand is commonly injured in boxing but it is not clear why some athletes sustain hand injuries while others do not. It is possible that there are differences in the distribution of impact forces at the knuckle during punching between athletes and that certain distribution patterns may be predictive of increased injury risk. We developed a method of analysing the distribution of impact forces at the knuckle during punching using pressure film. Pressure film allows a calculation of the distribution and magnitude of pressure and force between any two surfaces that come into contact. Methods: Pressure film was inserted into the gloves of three male subjects prior to punching a stationary target. After each punch, the pressure film was removed and analysed to determine the distribution of the impact force during each punch across each of the four knuckles. Punches were repeated multiple times for each subject. The proportional distribution of the impact force during punches was compared between knuckles and within subjects. Results: The proportional distribution of the impact force exerted during punches was significantly different between knuckles and within subjects (p < 0.05). Knuckle 2 displayed the largest proportion of impact forces while knuckle 3 displayed the smallest proportion of impact forces. Conclusions: Pressure film inserted into boxing gloves can be used to analyse the distribution of impact forces across the knuckles during punching. Further work is needed to confirm the reliability and validity of the technique and establish whether there is an association between the impact forces at the individual knuckles and hand injury risk during boxing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/917/', ['Bioengineering', 'Kinesiology'], [u'Institute of Sport Exercise and Health, University College London', u'John Scales Centre for Biomedical Engineering, UCL Institute of Orthopaedics & Musculoskeletal Science., Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital', u'Department of Strength and Conditioning, Strength and Conditioning Research Limited']]
[u'A rapid assessment of post-disclosure experiences of urban HIV-positive and HIV-negative school-aged children in Kenya', ['Grace Gachanja'], u'2015-03-22', u'There has been limited involvement of HIV-negative children in HIV disclosure studies; most studies conducted on the effects of disclosure on children have been with HIVpositive children and HIV-positive mother-child dyads. Seven HIV-positive and five HIVnegative children participated in a larger study conducted to understand the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya. In this study, the experiences of these 12 children after receiving disclosure of their own and their parents\u2019 illnesses respectively are presented. Each child underwent an indepth qualitative semi-structured digitally recorded interview. The recorded interviews were transcribed and loaded into NVivo8 for phenomenological data analysis. Five themes emerged from the data, indicating that HIV-positive and negative children appear to have differing post-disclosure experiences revolving around acceptance of illness, stigma and discrimination, medication consumption, sexual awareness, and use of coping mechanisms. Following disclosure, HIV-negative children accepted their parents\u2019 illnesses within a few hours to a few weeks; HIV-positive children took weeks to months to accept their own illnesses. HIV-negative children knew of high levels of stigma and discrimination within the community; HIV-positive children reported experiencing indirect incidences of stigma and discrimination. HIV-negative children wanted their parents to take their medications, stay healthy, and pay their school fees so they could have a better life in the future; HIV-positive children viewed medication consumption as an ordeal necessary to keep them healthy. HIV-negative children wanted their parents to speak to them about sexual-related matters; HIV-positive children had lingering questions about relationships, use of condoms, marriage, and childbearing options. All but one preadolescent HIV-positive child had self-identified a person to speak with for social support. When feeling overwhelmed by their circumstances, most children self-withdrew and performed positive activities (e.g., praying, watching TV, listening to the radio, singing, dancing) to help themselves feel better. Many HIV-affected families have a combination of HIV-positive and negative siblings within the household. Pending further studies conducted with larger sample sizes, the results of this study should assist healthcare professionals to better facilitate disclosure between HIV-positive parents and their children of mixed HIV statuses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/821/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'HIV', 'Pediatrics', 'Public Health'], [u'College of Health Sciences, Walden University']]
[u'Integrating bioinformatics tools to investigate protein phosphorylation', ['Dimitrios Vlachakis', 'Elena Bencurova', 'Mangesh Bhide', 'Sophia Kossida'], u'2015-03-20', u'Protein phosphorylation is one of the most important protein post-translational modifications and plays a role in numerous cellular processes including recognition, signaling and degradation. It can be studied experimentally by various methodologies, like employing western blot analysis, site-directed mutagenesis, 2 D gel electrophoresis, mass spectrometry etc. A number of in silico tools have also been developed in order to predict plausible phosphorylation sites in a given protein. In this review, we conducted a benchmark study including the leading protein phosphorylation prediction software, in an effort to determine which performs best. The first place was taken by GPS 2.2, having predicted all phosphorylation sites with a 83% fidelity while in second place came NetPhos 2.0 with 69%.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/916/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Bioinformatics & Medical Informatics Team, Biomedical Research Foundation, Academy of Athens', u'Laboratory of Biomedical Microbiology and Immunology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Veterinary Medicine and Pharmacy', u'Institute of Neuroimmunology, Slovak Academy of Sciences', u'IMGT, the international ImMunoGeneTics information system, Institute of Human Genetics']]
[u'Development of a web-based vegetation spectral library (VSL) for remote sensing research and applications', ['Santonu Goswami', 'Kuldeep Matharasi'], u'2015-03-20', u"All objects on the Earth's surface absorb and reflect portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. Depending on the composition of the material, every material has its characteristic spectral profile. The characteristic spectral profile for vegetation is often used to study how vegetation patterns at large spatial scales affect ecosystem structure and function. Analysis of spectroscopic data from the laboratory, and from various other platforms like aircraft or spacecraft, requires a knowledge base that consists of different characteristic spectral profiles for known different materials. This study reports on establishment of an online and searchable spectral library for a range of plant species and landcover types in the Arctic, Antarctic and Chihuahuan desert ecosystems. Field data were collected from Arctic Alaska, the Antarctic Peninsula and the Chihuahuan desert in the visible to near infrared (IR) range using a handheld portable spectrometer. The data have been archived in a database created using postgre sql with have been made publicly available on a plone web-interface.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/915/', ['Data Science', 'Databases', 'Digital Libraries'], [u'Climate Change Science Institute, Oak Ridge National Laboratory', u'Department of Bioinformatics, University of Texas at El Paso']]
[u'Multi-scale modelling of E. coli metabolism', ['Kieran Smallbone', 'Pierre Millard'], u'2015-03-20', u'In response to environmental and genetic perturbations, micro-organisms may regulate their metabolism both metabolically \u2013 via metabolite-enzyme interactions \u2013 and hierarchically \u2013 via modulating enzyme capacities. In this report, we develop a combined metabolic and genetic regulatory model of E. coli that may be used to test this multi-scale response.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/914/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Manchester Centre for Integrative Systems Biology, University of Manchester', u'INSA, UPS, INP, LISBP, INRA, UMR792 Ingenierie des Systemes Biologiques et des Procedes, CNRS, UMR550, Universit\xe9 de Toulouse']]
[u'Relationships of NDVI, Biomass, and Leaf Area Index (LAI) for six key plant species in Barrow, Alaska', ['Santonu Goswami', 'John Gamon', 'Sergio Vargas', 'Craig Tweedie'], u'2015-03-19', u'Here we investigate relationships between NDVI, Biomass, and Leaf Area Index (LAI) for six key plant species near Barrow, Alaska. We explore how key plant species differ in biomass, leaf area index (LAI) and how can vegetation spectral indices be used to estimate biomass and LAI for key plant species. A vegetation index (VI) or a spectral vegetation index (SVI) is a quantitative predictor of plant biomass or vegetative vigor, usually formed from combinations of several spectral bands, whose values are added, divided, or multiplied in order to yield a single value that indicates the amount or vigor of vegetation. For six key plant species, NDVI was strongly correlated with biomass (R2 = 0.83) and LAI (R2 = 0.70) but showed evidence of saturation above a biomass of 100 g/m2 and an LAI of 2 m2/m2. Extrapolation of a biomass-plant cover model to a multi-decadal time series of plant cover observations suggested that Carex aquatilis and Eriophorum angustifolium decreased in biomass while Arctophila fulva and Dupontia fisheri increased 1972-2008.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/913/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Climate Change Science Institute, Oak Ridge National Laboratory', u'Environmental Sciences Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory', u'Department of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, University of Alberta', u'Environmental Science and Engineering Program, University of Teas at El Paso']]
[u'Kisspeptin receptor agonist (FTM080) increased plasma concentrations of luteinizing hormone in anestrous ewes', ['Brian K Whitlock', 'Joseph A Daniel', 'Lisa L Amelse', 'Valeria M Tanco', 'Kelly A Chameroy', 'F Neal Schrick'], u'2015-03-19', u'Kisspeptin receptor (KISS1R) agonists with increased half-life and similar efficacy to kisspeptin in vitro may provide beneficial applications in breeding management of many species. However, many of these agonists have not been tested in vivo. These studies were designed to test and compare the effects of a KISS1R agonist (FTM080) and kisspeptin on luteinizing hormone (LH) in vivo. In experiment 1 (pilot study), sheep were treated with FTM080 (500 pmol/kg BW) or sterile water (VEH) intravenosuly. Blood was collected every 15 min before (1 hr) and after (1 hr) treatment. In experiment 2, sheep were treated with KP-10 (human Metastin 45-54; 500 pmol/kg BW), one of three dosages of FTM080 [500 (FTM080:500), 2500 (FTM080:2500), or 5000 (FTM080:5000) pmol/kg BW], or VEH intravenously. Blood was collected every 15 min before (1 hr) and after (4 hr) treatment. In experiment 1, FTM080:500 increased (P < 0.05) plasma LH concentrations when compared to VEH. The area under the curve (AUC) of LH following FTM080:500 treatment was also increased (P < 0.05). In experiment 2, plasma LH concentrations increased (P < 0.05) following treatment with KP-10 and FTM080:5000 when compared to VEH and FTM080:500. The AUC of LH following KP-10 was greater than (P < 0.05) all other treatments and the AUC of LH following FTM080:5000 was greater than (P < 0.05) all treatments except KP-10. These data provide evidence to suggest that FTM080 stimulates the gonadotropic axis of ruminants in vivo. Any increased half-life and comparable efficacy of FTM080 to KP-10 in vitro does not appear to translate to in vivo in sheep.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/912/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Translational Medicine'], [u'Department of Large Animal Clinical Sciences, The University of Tennessee', u'Department of Animal Science, Berry College', u'Department of Animal Science, The University of Tennessee']]
[u'Association between virtues and posttraumatic growth: Preliminary evidence from a Chinese community sample after earthquakes', ['Wenjie Duan', 'Pengfei Guo'], u'2015-03-19', u'Objective: Relationship, vitality, and conscientiousness are three fundamental virtues that have been identified recently, which are important individual differences to health, well being, and positive development. This cross-sectional study attempted to explore the relationship between the three constructs and post-traumatic growth (PTG) in three directions, including indirect trauma samples without post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), direct trauma samples without PTSD, and direct trauma samples with PTSD. Methods: A total of 340 community participants from Sichuan Province, Mainland China involved in the study, most of which experienced Wenchuan and Lushan Earthquake. Participants were required to complete the self-reported questionnaire packages at one time point for obtaining their scores on virtues (Chinese Virtues Questionnaire), PTSD (PTSD Checklist-Specific), and PTG (Post-traumatic Growth Inventory-Chinese). Results: Significant and positive correlations between the three virtues and PTG were identified (r = .39 to .56; p < .01). Further regression analysis by stepwise method reveled that: in the indirect trauma samples, vitality explained 32% variance of PTG. In reference to the direct trauma sample without PTSD, both relationship and conscientiousness explained 32% variance of PTG; whereas in the direct trauma sample with PTSD, only conscientiousness accounted for 31% the variance in PTG. Conclusion: This cross-sectional investigation partly revealed the roles of different virtues in trauma context. Findings suggest important implications for strengths-based treatment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/910/', ['Epidemiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Applied Social Sciences, City University of Hong Kong', u'Party Committee Office, Hospital (T. C. M) Affiliated to Luzhou Medical College']]
[u'Mechanistic pathways of mercury removal from the organomercurial lyase active site', ['Pedro J Silva', 'Viviana Rodrigues'], u'2015-03-19', u'Bacterial populations present in Hg-rich environments have evolved biological mechanisms to detoxify methylmercury and other organometallic mercury compounds. The most common resistance mechanism relies on the H+-assisted cleavage of the Hg-C bond of methylmercury by the organomercurial lyase MerB. Although the initial reaction steps which lead to the loss of methane from methylmercury have already been studied experimentally and computationally, the reaction steps leading to the removal of Hg2+ from MerB and regeneration of the active site for a new round of catalysis have not yet been elucidated. In this paper, we describe an MP2/CBS//B3PW91/6-31G(d) study of the final steps of the reaction catalyzed by MerB. While conceptually simple, these reaction steps occur in a complex potential energy surface where several distinct pathways are accessible and may operate concurrently. The only pathway which clearly emerges as forbidden in our analysis is the one arising from the sequential addition of two thiolates to the metal atom, due to the accumulation of negative charges in the active site. Addition of two thiols, in contrast, leads to two feasible mechanistic possibilities. The most straightforward pathway proceeds through proton transfer from the attacking thiol to Cys159 , leading to its removal from the mercury coordination sphere, followed by a slower attack of a second thiol, which removes Cys96. The other pathway involves Asp99 in an accessory role similar to the one observed earlier for the initial stages of the reaction and affords a lower activation enthalpy, around 14 kcal.mol-1, determined solely by the cysteine removal step rather than by the thiol ligation step. Addition of one thiolate to the intermediates arising from either thiol attack occurs without a barrier and produces an intermediate bound to one active site cysteine and from which Hg(SCH3)2 may be removed only after protonation by solvent-provided H3O+. Thiolate addition to the active site (prior to any attack by thiols) leads to pathways where the removal of the first cysteine becomes the rate-determining step, irrespective of whether Cys159 or Cys96 leaves first. Comparisons with the recently computed mechanism of the related enzyme MerA further underline the important role of Asp99 in the energetics of the MerB reaction.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/909/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics'], [u'FP-ENAS/Fac. de Ci\xeancias da Sa\xfade, Universidade Fernando Pessoa']]
[u'Perilipin-related protein regulates lipid metabolism in C. elegans', ['Ahmed A. Chughtai', 'Filip Kassak', 'Marketa Kostrouchova', 'Jan Philipp Novotny', 'Michael W. Krause', 'Vladimir Saudek', 'Zdenek Kostrouch', 'Marta Kostrouchova'], u'2015-03-18', u'The perilipins are lipid droplet surface proteins that contribute to fat metabolism by controlling the access of lipids to lipolytic enzymes. Perilipins have been identified in organisms as diverse as metazoa, fungi, and amoebas but strikingly not in nematodes. Here we identify the protein encoded by the W01A8.1 gene in Caenorhabditis elegans as the closest homologue of metazoan perilipin. We demonstrate that nematode W01A8.1 is a cytoplasmic protein residing on lipid droplets. Human perilipins 1 and 2 localize in transgenic C. elegans on the same structures as proteins expressed from W01A8.1 gene. Inhibition and elimination of W01A8.1 affects the appearance of lipid droplets especially visible as the formation of large lipid droplets localized around the dividing nucleus during the early zygotic divisions. This phenomenon disappears in later stages of embryogenesis indicating the existence of an additional mechanism of lipid regulation in C. elegans. Our results demonstrate that perilipin-related regulation of fat metabolism is conserved in nematodes and provide new possibilities for functional studies of lipid metabolism.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/904/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Institute of Cellular Biology and Pathology, First Faculty of Medicine, Charles University', u'Laboratory of Molecular Biology and Genetics, and Laboratory of Molecular Pathology, Biocev, Program 5.2.4.', u'Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health', u'Institute of Metabolic Science, University of Cambridge Metabolic Research Laboratories, Wellcome Trust\u2013Medical Research Council']]
[u'Effect of vitex agnus-castus on sheep rumen fluids using an in vitro gas production method', ['Sibel S Onenc'], u'2015-03-18', u'The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of different levels of Vitex agnus-castus (VAC) on in vitro gas production (GP), organic matter digestibility (OMD) and net energy lactation (NEL) using an in vitro gas-production method. Two rumen-fistulated sheep were used in the experiment. The sheep were fed 60% alfalfa hay and 40% concentrate feed twice daily. Five different levels of VAC were added to the concentrate (CON) to produce 200 mg DM (CON - without VAC; 1 - 2 mg VAC+198 mg CON; 2 - 4 mg VAC+196 mg CON; 3 - 6 mg VAC+194 mg CON; 4 - 8 mg VAC+192 mg CON; 5 - 10 mg VAC+190 mg CON). The volume of gas produced was recorded at 2, 4, 8, 12, and 24 h after incubation. The results showed GP, OMD and NEL contents with no significant changes even as the level of VAC were added to the CON. VAC groups affected the rapidly degraded fractions; however, did not affect the slowly degraded fractions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/908/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Animal Science, Nam\u0131k Kemal University, Faculty of Agriculture']]
[u'Co-father relationships among the Suru\xed (Paiter) of Brazil', ['Robert S Walker', 'Cedric Yvinec', 'Ryan M Ellsworth', 'Drew H Bailey'], u'2015-03-18', u'Partible paternity refers to the conception belief that children can have multiple fathers (\u201cco-fathers\u201d) and is common to indigenous cultures of lowland South America. The nature of social relationships observed between co-fathers reveals information about the reproductive strategies underlying partible paternity. Here we analyze clan, genealogical, and social relationships between co-fathers for the Suru\xed, an indigenous horticultural population in Brazil. We show that co-fathers roughly assort into two separate categories. In the affiliative category, co-father relationships are amicable when they are between close kin, namely brothers and father-son. In the competitive category, relationships are more likely of avoidance or open hostility when between more distant kin such as cousins or unrelated men of different clans. Results therefore imply multiple types of relationships, including both cooperative and competitive contexts, under the rubric of partible paternity. These complexities of partible paternity institutions add to our knowledge of the full range of cross-cultural variation in human mating/marriage arrangements and speak to the debate on whether or not humans should be classified as cooperative breeders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/843/', ['Anthropology'], [u'Department of Anthropology, University of Missouri', u'Fondation Thiers, Laboratoire d\u2019Anthropologie Sociale (CNRS)', u'School of Education, University of California']]
[u'Molecular investigation of the microbial community associated with the fire sponge, Tedania ignis, in Bermuda', ['Nicholas J Jouett', 'Meredith E Bibbings', 'Clarisse E Sullivan', 'Rachel J Parsons'], u'2015-03-17', u'The complex, phylogenetically diverse, and specific microbial communities associated with marine sponges are a key aspect of the ecology and evolution of the metazoan host and the endosymbiotic microbes. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) methods, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T RFLP), and functional gene probing via PCR, the current study investigates the microbial associations in the common Caribbean fire sponge, Tedania ignis. Sponge and water samples were collected from different sites around Bermuda from 2012 to 2014 in order to assess their respective microbial communities. Using FISH, SAR202 (Chloroflexi) (5.82% \xb1 0.59%) and Crenarchaea (7.97% \xb1 1.08%) were identified as the most abundant contributors to the microbial assemblage of T. ignis while the Alphaproteobacterium SAR11 (30.68% \xb1 1.68%) was identified as the most dominant species in the surrounding seawater. Due to the presence of Crenarchaea, the Archaeal gene for ammonia oxidation (amoA) was probed via PCR and found to be present. T RFLP identified the most abundant fragment length present in the sponge as 336 bp (>60% of T RFLP peak abundance). The sponge community was consistent and markedly distinct from that of the ambient seawater as identified by both FISH and T RFLP. Epifluorescent microscopy with DAPI staining also identified T. ignis as a high microbial abundance (HMA) sponge, in contrast to previous studies. Together, these data characterize the microbiome of T. ignis in much further detail than has previously been described.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/905/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'College of the Environment and Life Sciences, University of Rhode Island', u'Bermuda Institute of Ocean Sciences', u'Microbial Observatory, Bermuda Institute of Ocean Sciences', u'Anatomy and Cell Biology, McGill University']]
[u'Using emotional scripts to generate and validate a set of emotion verbs', ['Emma Portch', 'Jelena Havelka', 'Charity Brown', 'Roger Giner-Sorolla'], u'2015-03-17', u'Information about everyday emotional experiences is integrated into internal scripts (e.g. Shaver et al., 1987). Script content provides a context within which to compare and subsequently interpret newly experienced, emotional stimuli, such as facial expressions and behaviours. We explore whether this internal context may also be used to interpret emotional words. In particular, we argue that the \u2018meaning\u2019 of emotional verbs may be strongly context-dependent (e.g. Schacht & Sommer, 2009). Harnessing previous context-based methods, we define verb meaning by the degree of association between the behaviours to which they refer and discrete emotional states (e.g. \u2018fear\u2019), within emotional scripts (Stevenson, Mikels & James, 2007). We used a self-generation method to derive a set of verbs that participants associated with six universal, emotional states (study 1; see full list in appendix A). Emotion labels acted as script anchors. For each verb, degree of emotionality and discrete association were measured by the number of participants who generated that word. As expected, a different modal exemplar was generated for each discrete emotion. In study 2 we used a rating task to assess the stability of the relationship between modal, or typical, verbs and the emotion label to which they had been generated. Verbs and labels were embedded in a sentence and participants were invited to reflect on their emotional attributions in everyday life to rate the association (\u2018If you are feeling \u2018sad\u2019 how likely would you be to act in the following way?\u2019 e.g. \u2019cry\u2019). Findings suggest that typical relationships were robust. Participants always gave higher ratings to typical vs. atypical verb and label pairings even when (a) rating direction was manipulated (the label or verb appeared first in the sentence), and (b) the typical behaviours were to be performed by themselves or others ( \u2018If someone is sad, how likely are they to act in the following way?\u2019 e.g. \u2019cry\u2019). Our findings suggest that emotion scripts create verb meaning, and therefore provide a context within which to interpret emotional words. We provide a set of emotion verbs that are robustly associated with discrete, emotional labels/states. This resource may be used by a variety of researchers, including those interested in categorical processing of emotional words and language-mediated facial mimicry.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/903/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology, University of Leeds', u'School of Psychology, Keynes College, University of Kent']]
[u'Summertime dosage-dependent hypersensitivity to an angiotensin II receptor blocker', ['Donald R Forsdyke'], u'2015-03-16', u'Background:  Summertime dips in blood pressure (BP), both in normotensive and hypertensive subjects, are well known. However, the dips are small and are not related to particular forms or doses of antihypertensive medication. Nevertheless it is the practice in some quarters to decrease antihypertensive medication in summer, and/or to increase in winter. Large scale studies being inconclusive, there are calls for long-term examination of the relationship between environmental temperature and blood pressure in single individuals under medication.\n  Case presentation:  While analyzing data from a subject whose BP had been controlled for a decade with the angiotensin-II receptor blocker losartan, an extreme, dosage-dependent, summertime dip came to light. Downward dosage adjustment appeared essential and may have prevented hypotension-related pathology.\n  Conclusion:  The benefits of aggressive medication (the "J curve" phenomenon) being debated, the possibility of seasonal hypersensitivity, explicable in terms of differential signaling by countervailing receptors, should be taken into account when considering dosage adjustments in hypertensive subjects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/144/', ['Cardiology'], [u"Department of Biomedical and Molecular Sciences, Queen's University"]]
[u'Zbrowse: an interactive GWAS results browser', ['Greg R Ziegler', 'Ryan H Hartsock', 'Ivan Baxter'], u'2015-03-17', u'The growing number of genotyped populations, the advent of high-throughput phenotyping techniques and the development of GWAS analysis software has rapidly accelerated the number of GWAS experimental results. Candidate gene discovery from these results files is often tedious, involving many manual steps searching for genes in windows around a significant SNP. This problem rapidly becomes more complex when an analyst wishes to compare multiple GWAS studies for pleiotropic or environment specific effects. To this end, we have developed a fast and intuitive interactive browser for the viewing of GWAS results with a focus on an ability to compare results across multiple traits or experiments. The software can easily be run on a desktop computer with software that bioinformaticians are likely already familiar with. Additionally, the software can be hosted or embedded on a server for easy access by anyone with a modern web browser.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/902/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Visual Analytics'], [u'United States Department of Agriculture Agricultural Research Service', u'Donald Danforth Plant Science Center']]
[u'Does polyandry really pay off?: The effects of multiple mating and number of fathers on morphological traits and survival in clutches of nesting green turtles at Tortuguero', ['Alonzo Alfaro-Nunez', 'Michael P. Jensen', 'F. Alberto Abreu-Grobois'], u'2015-03-16', u'Despite the long debate of whether or not multiple mating benefits the offspring, studies still show contradicting results. Multiple mating takes time and energy. Thus, if females fertilize their eggs with a single mating, why to mate more than once? We investigated and inferred paternal identity and number of sires in 12 clutches (240 hatchlings) of green turtles (Chelonia mydas) nests at Tortuguero, Costa Rica. Paternal alleles were inferred through comparison of maternal and hatchling genotypes, and indicated multiple paternity in at least 11 of the clutches (92%). The inferred average number of fathers was three (ranging from 1 to 5). Moreover, regression analyses were used to investigate for correlation of inferred clutch paternity with morphological traits of hatchlings fitness (emergence success, length, weight and crawling speed); and size of the mother; and an environmental variable (incubation temperature). We suggest and propose two different comparative approaches for evaluating morphological traits and clutch paternity, in order to infer greater offspring survival. First, clutches coded by the exact number of fathers and second by the exact paternal contribution (fathers who gives greater proportion of the offspring per nest). We found significant differences (P < 0.05) in clutches coded by the exact number of fathers for all morphological traits. A general tendency of higher values in offspring sired by two to three fathers was observed for the length and weight traits. However, emergence success and crawling speed showed different trends which unable us to reach any further conclusion. The second approach analysing the paternal contribution showed no significant difference (P > 0.05) for any of the traits. We conclude that multiple paternity does not provide any extra benefit in the morphological fitness traits or the survival of the offspring, when analysed following the proposed comparative statistical methods.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/651/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of Copenhagen, Section for Evolutionary Genomics, Center for GeoGenetics', u'Marine Mammal and Turtle Division, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration', u'Laboratorio de Gen\xe9tica, Unidad Acad\xe9mica Mazatl\xe1n, Instituto de Ciencias del Mar y Limnolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico']]
[u'Psychosocial functioning before and after surgical treatment for morbid obesity: reliability and validation of the Norwegian version of obesity-related problem scale', ['Anny Aasprang', 'John Roger Andersen', 'Villy Vage', 'Ronette L Kolotkin', 'Gerd Karin Natvig'], u'2015-03-16', u'Background:  The aims of this study were to translate the Obesity-Related Problem scale (OP scale) into the Norwegian language and test its reliability, validity and responsiveness in a Norwegian sample.   Method:  The questionnaire (OP scale) was translated from the original language (Swedish) into Norwegian. Patients completed the questionnaire prior to and one year after sleeve gastrectomy. Internal consistency was evaluated using Cronbach`s \u03b1. Floor and ceiling effect were calculated as percentages. Construct validity was tested by correlating the OP-scale with the SF-36 and the Cantril Ladder using the Pearson correlation coefficient. Exploratory factor analysis, using principal component analysis with varimax rotation, was used to test the unidimensionality of the OP scale. Responsiveness was tested by assessing changes in the OP scale from baseline to one year post-surgery using the paired sample t-test.   Result:  A total of 181 patients (123 women) accepted for bariatric surgery was included in the study. The mean age was 43.1 \xb1 12.5 years, and mean body mass index (BMI) before surgery was 45 \xb1 6.9. The mean value of the OP scale at baseline was 63.30 \xb1 24.43 (severe impairment) and 21.01 \xb1 20.98 at one year follow-up (mild impairment). Cronbach`s \u03b1 was high at baseline (0. 91), as well as one year after surgery (0.88). The floor effect was small at baseline and moderate at one year. The ceiling effect was small at baseline and at one year.  Exploratory factor analysis showed one factor with a high percent of explained variance (baseline and post-surgery). Correlations between OP scale at baseline, SF-36, Cantril Ladder and BMI were statistically significant and in the predicted direction to support validity of the Norwegian OP scale . After one year correlations between the change in OP scale and the change in SF-36 scores, Cantril Ladder and BMI were also statistically significant, except for the change in the Role Physical-scale. The OP scale showed greater responsiveness than either the SF-36 or Cantril Ladder.   Conclusion:  These results confirm that the Norwegian version of the OP scale is a valid and reliable instrument for measuring psychosocial functioning in patients with clinically severe obesity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/900/', ['Nursing', 'Nutrition', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Faculty of Health Studies, Sogn og Fjordane University Collage', u'Department of Surgery, F\xf8rde Central Hospital', u'Department of Community and Family Medicine, Duke University School of Medicine', u'Quality of Life Consulting, PLLC', u'Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen']]
[u'Evolutionary role of the nucleus', ['Valentina Agoni'], u'2015-03-16', u'Communication is of great importance in cells: it is matter of survival. Cells communicate each other in many ways. Inside the cell, the information proceeds through the form of signal transduction pathways. We consider a possible role of the nucleus in the regulation of the flow of information at the last step of signal transduction pathways. In particular, we evaluate the importance of clarity for the report about the environmental conditions and the relative response of cells using over-estimating and under-estimating probabilities concepts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/899/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Molecular Medicine, University of Pavia']]
[u'HapFlow: Visualising haplotypes in sequencing data', ['Mitchell J Sullivan', 'Nathan L Bachmann', 'Peter Timms', 'Adam Polkinghorne'], u'2015-03-14', u'Summary: HapFlow is a python application for visualising haplotypes present in high-throughput sequencing data. HapFlow identifies nucleotide variant profiles in raw read sequences and creates an abstract visual representation of these profiles to make haplotypes easier to identify. Availablity: HapFlow is freely available (under a GPL license) for download (for Mac OS X, Unix and Microsoft Windows) from github (http://mjsull.github.io/HapFlow).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/895/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Faculty of Science, Health, Education and Engineering, University of the Sunshine Coast']]
[u'A new short-necked chelid turtle from the Loncoche Formation (Late Campanian- Early Maastrichtian) Mendoza province, Argentina: Macro, microanatomy, and preliminary phylogenetic relationships', ['Marcelo de la Fuente', 'Ignacio Maniel', 'Juan Marcos Jannello', 'Juliana Sterli', 'Bernardo Gonzalez Riga', 'Fernando Novas'], u'2015-03-13', u'Background. The lower section of the Loncoche Formation (Late Campanian-Early Maastrichtian) outcropping at Ranquil-C\xf3 locality (Mendoza province, Argentina) has yielded a rich assemblage of vertebrates that was studied in 1995 by Gonzalez Riga. According to this author these vertebrate remains were found in a tidal paleoenvironment, resulting from transportation, mixing and deposition of continental remains mixed with those from near costal environments. Previously to these findings Jose F. Bonaparte recovered in 1990 a large turtle from the same locality and horizon. Methods. Remains of basicranium (basioccipital and basisphenoid), fragments of both quadrates, left opisthotic, a lower jaw, cervical vertebrae, one caudal vertebra, appendicular skeleton, a partial carapace and one almost complete plastron are preserved in MACN Pv M2. In order to explore the phylogenetic relationships of MACN Pv M2, this specimen was included in a data matrix built up by 48 characters and 17 taxa. One fragmentary costal plate was sampled for histological analysis. The bone microstructure of the thin sections was studied under light microscopy using normal and polarized lights. Results. The preliminary phylogenetic analysis suggests that MACN Pv M2 is nested in a clade also including Phrynops hilarii + Mesoclemmys nasuta + long-necked chelids. The pelvic girdle attached by suture to the shell in MACN Pv M2 and the synapomorphic characters such as splenial bone in the lower jaw, ilium extending over the eight costal and anterior margin of the suprapygal bones allow us to assign this specimen to Pleurodira Chelidae. The microanatomy of MACN Pv M2 shows a diploe structure as in other turtles. The internal cortex is equal or slowly thinner than the external one, and the cancellous bone occupy the main proportion (50-60%). The external cortex is composed of structural fibre bundles that extend parallel to the external surface and orient longitudinally and transversally to the progression of the elements. The cancellous bone is mostly well developed. The internal cortex consists of parallel-fibred bone that locally can grade into lamellar bone. Discussion. The unique combination of plesiomorphies (such as lateral mesoplastra, area articularis mandibularis concave, a short midline epiplastral suture, an anterior peripherals bones shorter than posterior ones) and autapomorphies (such as both rami of the lower jaw fused, extremely wide anterior plastral lobe, and a slightly epiplastral notch) recovered in this phylogenetic analysis allow to assigned MACN Pv M2 as a new species of short-necked chelid taxa. The histology of MACN Pv M2 shows features that suggest adaptation to the aquatic lifestyle (i.e., well vascularized external cortex, the vascularization of the internal cortex composed of scattered vascular canals and primary osteons of longitudinally orientation).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/894/', ['Paleontology'], [u'CONICET- IANIGLA-Museo de Historia Natural de San Rafael', u'CONICET - Museo Egidio Feruglio', u'CONICET- IANIGLA - Universidad Nacional de Cuyo', u'CONICET - Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales']]
[u'Pulmonary anatomy in the Trionychia and its bearing on cryptodiran evolution', ['Markus Lambertz', 'Steven F Perry'], u'2015-03-13', u'Background. The relationships among cryptodiran turtles often appear controversial depending on the approach followed (morphology vs. molecules). One controversy concerns the placement of the Trionychia (Carettochelys insculpta Ramsay, 1886 + Trionychidae), which usually is treated as sister taxon of Kinosternidae and thereby nested well within Cryptodira (morphology), or as sister taxon of all remaining cryptodirans (molecules). The aim of the present study is to introduce new data on the respiratory apparatus to this discussion.\nMethods. Lungs and associated structures (extrapulmonary airways, coelomic integration, respiratory musculature), of C. insculpta and that of several Trionychidae were examined macroscopically. The excised lungs were dried, opened and photographed, or imaged using a \xb5CT device.\nResults. The lungs show a characteristic separation from the viscera by the post-pulmonary septum (PPS), which varies in its extent from highly incomplete to complete. The primary respiratory musculature is composed of the musculus transversus thoracis, m. t. abdominis and m. obliquus abdominis. The lungs of C. insculpta superficially resemble that of the Trionychidae, but differ markedly from them and all other turtles studied so far in that they exhibit a medially located, almost sac-like and elongated, huge additional chamber. The right extrapulmonary bronchi of all trionychians examined are shorter than the left ones, causing a dislocation of the trachea to the right side of the cervical region.\nDiscussion. The principal coelomic compartmentalization by the PPS agrees with previous studies on turtles, but indicates the convergent development of a completely separated pleural cavity in Trionychidae. The presence and anatomy of the respiratory musculature is in agreement with that recently inferred for turtles as a whole. Our data confirm the evolutionary distinctiveness of the taxon Carettochelyidae with its sole extant member C. insculpta based on their pulmonary autapomorphy. The monophyly of the Trionychia, as defined above, is supported by several potential synapomorphies of the respiratory system. Most important, however, is that our data, especially on the extrapulmonary airways, provide morphological support for the predominantly molecular-based hypothesis of an early split of the Cryptodira into the Trionychia and the remaining lineages. The displacement of the trachea to the right side contrasts with the situation found in all remaining cryptodirans, in which the trachea lies to the left of the esophagus (or an extreme reduction of tracheal length as in Testudinidae). This anatomical dichotomy could be related to the evolution of the specialized mechanism of neck retraction in cryptodirans. Our study points up the importance of so-called soft-tissue characters in inferring the evolutionary relationships of organisms in general, and of turtles in particular.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/893/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Institut f\xfcr Zoologie, Rheinische Friedrich-Wilhelms-Universit\xe4t Bonn']]
[u'A new specimen of Puppigerus from the London Clay of Walton on the Naze, Essex, United Kingdom and the speciation and palaeo-distribution of marine turtles during the Eocene', ['Richard T. J. Moody', 'Sandra Chapman', 'Christopher King'], u'2015-03-13', u'Background. A well preserved skull reported from the London Clay of the Walton on the Naze in Essex, UK adds an additional record to a rich turtle assemblage from the Eocene (Ypresian-Lutetian) of several depositional basins across NW Europe and North Africa including the London and Belgian Basins. The London Clay and age equivalent formations are dated as c.50 million years by the analysis of the microfossils, vertebrates, volcanic ash beds found throughout the sequence. The London Clay in the area of Walton on the Naze, Essex is comprised of fine grained, clay-rich deposits that yield a host of invertebrates, fossil plant debris, including seeds, together with mostly disarticulated skeletons of fish, birds, mammals and reptiles; the better specimens being enclosed in septarian nodules. The biostratigraphy of the various levels is confirmed by Chistopher King (deceased). Methods. In 1977 a fossil rich calcareous nodule was presented to the NHM, London, UK and the preparatory work was undertaken the same year by Ron Croucher of the former NHM, Palaeontology Conservation Unit and produced a complete 3 dimensional skull and lower jaw, complete limb and girdle material plus hyoid bones and numerous vertebrae and the incomplete presentation of a small delicate shell. Several years elapsed before the specimen was ready for study but its research potential has only recently been recognised. Results. The published discoveries of primitive cheloniids in Russia and North Africa have provided evidence for the global distribution of the cheloniids. The shell material seemingly belongs to a juvenile whereas the skull is comparable to the largest specimens of either Puppigerus or Argillochelys found in the London Clay of the Isle of Sheppey, Kent, UK or the Eocene sediments of the Belgian Basin. The excellent preservation of this \u2018Walton\u2019 skull (NHMUK R14375) enables the authors to draw comparisons with the exceptional material housed in The Institut Royal des Sciences Naturelles in Bruxelles. A detailed description of the skull NHMUK R1437 will be presented. Discussion. In an earlier study Moody (1974) examined an endocranial cast taken from the skull of Puppigerus camperi (IRSNB. IG 8402) that showed the principal flexures of the brain and so to extend this study we include an analysis of recent CT scans of several skulls of Puppigerus and Argillochelys. The cranial characteristics are almost identical to the skull of the Moroccan specimen described by Tong et al 2012 but there is a definitive lack of the \u2018spatulate\u2019 palatines found in Puppigerus camperi. The development of the spatulate palatine is found in both juvenile and adult specimens of P. camperi whereas flatter less developed palatines are characteristic throughout the growth cycle in other species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/892/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Department of Geology, Geography and Engineeering, Kingston University London, UK', u'Department of Earth Sciences, Natural History Museum', u'Kingston University']]
[u'Parents\u2019 evaluation of support in Australian hospitals following stillbirth', ['Melanie L Basile', 'Einar B Thorsteinsson'], u'2015-03-13', u'The present study evaluated the level of support and satisfaction among parents of stillborn babies in Australian hospitals. One-hundred and eighty-nine mothers and fathers completed an online survey designed by the researcher based on the guidelines designed by the Perinatal Society of Australia and New Zealand. Support was inconsistent with guidelines implemented only 55% of the time, on average. Areas of support regarding creating memories, birth options and autopsy were most problematic. A significant positive correlation was found between support and satisfaction and there is indication that there has been some increase in support and satisfaction over time. There has been a significant increase in both support and satisfaction since the release of the guidelines in 2009. Creating memories was regarded by parents as the most influential to their grief. It is recommended that health professionals review guidelines and seek feedback from parents as to how they can improve the support they provide.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/891/', ['Health Policy', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', "Women's Health"], [u'Department of Psychology / School of Behavioural, Cognitive and Social Sciences, University of New England']]
[u'Crossing the streams: a framework for streaming analysis of short DNA sequencing reads', ['Qingpeng Zhang', 'Sherine Awad', 'C. Titus Brown'], u'2015-03-12', u'We present a semi-streaming algorithm for k-mer spectral analysis of DNA sequencing reads, together with a derivative approach that is fully streaming. The approach can also be applied to genomic, transcriptomic, and metagenomic data sets. We develop two tools for short-read analysis based on these approaches, a method for semi-streaming k-mer-based error trimming, and a method for the analysis of error profiles in short reads using a streaming sublinear approach. These tools are implemented in the khmer software package, which is freely available under the BSD License at github.com/ged-lab/khmer/.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/890/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Computer Science and Engineering, Michigan State University', u'Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Michigan State University', u'Population Health and Reproduction, University of California, Davis']]
[u'The first occurrence of the enigmatic archosauriform Crosbysaurus Heckert 2004 from the Chinle Formation of Southern Utah', ['Robert J Gay', 'Isabella St. Aude'], u'2015-03-12', u'Originally identified as an ornithischian dinosaur, Crosbysaurus harrisae has been found in New Mexico, Arizona, and its type locality in Texas, as well as in North Carolina. The genus has been reassessed by other workers in light of reinterpretations about the postcrania of another putative Triassic ornithischian, Revueltosaurus. The understanding of Triassic dental faunas has become more complicated by the extreme convergence between pseudosuchian archosaurs and ornithischian dinosaur dental morphologies. We report here on a new specimen of Crosbysaurus (MNA V10666) from the Chinle Formation at Comb Ridge in southeastern Utah. This new specimen is assigned to Crosbysaurus sp. on the basis of the unique compound posterior denticles, labiolingual width, and curvature. While MNA V10666 does not help resolve the affinities of Crosbysaurus, it does represent the extension of the geographic range of this taxon for approximately 250 kilometers. This is the first record of the genus Crosbysaurus in Utah and as such it represents the northernmost known record of this taxon. This indicates that Crosbysaurus was not limited to the southern area of the Chinle/Dockum deposition but instead was widespread across the Late Triassic paleoriver systems of western Pangea. The reported specimen was found in close association with a typical Late Triassic Chinle fauna, including phytosaurs, metoposaurs, and dinosauromorphs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/537/', ['Biogeography', 'Paleontology'], [u'Science Department, Mission Heights Preparatory High School']]
[u'A glacial survivor of the alpine Mediterranean region: phylogenetic and phylogeographic insights into Silene ciliata Pourr. (Caryophyllaceae)', ['Ifigeneia Kyrkou', 'Jose Maria Iriondo', 'Alfredo Garcia-Fernandez'], u'2015-03-11', u'Silene ciliata Pourr. (Caryophyllaceae) is a species with a highly disjunct distribution that inhabits the alpine mountains of the Mediterranean Basin. We investigated the phylogeny and phylogeography of the species in an attempt to a) clarify the long suggested division of S. ciliata into two subspecies, b) evaluate its phylogenetic origin and c) assess whether the species\xb4 diversification patterns were affected by the Mediterranean relief. For this purpose, we collected DNA from 25 populations of the species that inhabit the mountains of Portugal, Spain, France, Italy, FYROM, Bulgaria and Greece and studied the plastid regions rbcL, rps16 and trnL. Major intraspecific variation was supported by all analyses, while the possibility of existence of more varieties or subspecies was not favoured. Plastid DNA evidence, especially in the cases of rps16 and trnL markers, was in accordance with the division of S. ciliata into the two subspecies, one spreading west (Iberian Peninsula and Central Massif) and the other east of the Alps region (Italian and Balkan Peninsula). The present study proposes that this vicariance has probably derived from the Alps acting as a barrier to the species dispersal. The monophyletic origin of the species is highly supported. Plastid DNA patterns may have resulted from a combination of geographic factors providing links and barriers, climatic adversities and evolutionary processes that took place during Quaternary glaciations. The latter might include hybridization events for the western subspecies and mutational accumulation for the eastern ones.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/889/', ['Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Biotechnology, Agricultural University of Athens', u'Area de Biodiversidad y Conservaci\xf3n, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos']]
[u'The \u201cRosetta Stone\u201d for deciphering the anatomy of the stem turtle Condorchelys antiqua (Early-Middle Jurassic; Chubut, Argentina)', ['Juliana Sterli', 'Marcelo de la Fuente', 'Guillermo Rougier'], u'2015-03-10', u'Background. Condorchelys antiqua is a stem turtle previously described from the Queso Rallado Locality, Ca\xf1ad\xf3n Asfalto Formation (Early-Middle Jurassic), Chubut, Argentina. In 2014 a skull (MPEF-PV 10900) and an articulated shell with associated postcranial remains (MPEF-PV 10884) of C. antiqua were discovered in the mentioned locality.\nMethods. The new specimens have been prepared by L. Reiner (technician at the Museo Egidio Feruglio) and then studied using the regular paleontological methodology (e.g., direct observations and under the microscope, photography, and drawings). The new data provided by these two specimens, plus some other isolated remains that were re-prepared, allowed us to score a 25% more of the characters of C. antiqua in the most complete up to date matrix for Mesozoic turtles. The matrix was build in Mesquite and analyzed under maximum parsimony in TNT. We performed two rounds of Tree Bisection Reconnection and calculated a strict consensus. Branch supports were provided using bootstrap, jackknife, and Bremer support.\nResults. We regard the specimen MPEF-PV 10900 as represented by the basicranium and some previously unknown skull bones like the maxilla, frontal, parietal, and postorbital. This specimen also shows that there were no teeth in the pterygoid of C. antiqua. On the other hand, specimen MPEF-PV 10884 is an almost complete carapace and plastron with 4 thoracic vertebrae and ribs, scapular and pelvic girdles, humerus, left radius, femur, tibia, fibula, 2 metatarsal/carpals, 2 phalanges, 1 ungual phalanx and 1 chevron bone. The preliminary cladistic analysis resulted in 750 most parsimonious trees of 893 steps. The result of the analysis corroborates the position of C. antiqua as a stem turtle more derived than the Triassic and Australochelys africanus. Condorchelys antiqua is recovered in a polytomy together with other early-middle Jurassic turtles (e.g., Kayentachelys aprix and Indochelys spatulata) and the clade formed by the remaining turtles.\nDiscussion. Although many new characters have been scored for C. antiqua in the phylogenetic analysis, this new information did not resolved the phylogenetic position for this taxon. We consider that more information about I. spatulata and K. aprix could help to better understand the relationships among these basal taxa. On the other hand, these new specimens of C. antiqua bring valuable information to decipher the anatomy of the poorly known non-shell postcranial elements of these Early to Middle Jurassic stem turtles. In light of the recently suggested aquatic preferences of C. antiqua, the next step on this research would be to explore other adaptations to the aquatic environment using postcranial elements, particularly the limb bones.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/884/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'CONICET-Museo Paleontol\xf3gico Egidio Feruglio', u'CONICET-Museo de Historia Natural de San Rafael', u'Department of  Anatomical Sciences and Neurobiology, University of Louisville']]
[u'Gender-based violence in 140 characters or fewer: a #BigData case study of Twitter', ['Hemant Purohit', 'Tanvi Banerjee', 'Andrew Hampton', 'Valerie Shalin', 'Nayanesh Bhandutia', 'Amit Sheth'], u'2015-03-10', u'Humanitarian and public institutions are increasingly relying on data from social media sites to measure public attitude, and provide timely public engagement. Such engagement supports the exploration of public views on important social issues such as gender-based violence (GBV). In this study, we examine Big (Social) Data consisting of nearly fourteen million tweets collected from the Twitter platform over a period of ten months to analyze public opinion regarding GBV, highlighting the nature of tweeting practices by geographical location and gender. The exploitation of Big Data requires the techniques of Computational Social Science to mine insight from the corpus while accounting for the influence of both transient events and sociocultural factors. We reveal public awareness regarding GBV tolerance and suggest opportunities for intervention and the measurement of intervention effectiveness assisting both governmental and non-governmental organizations in policy development', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/883/', ['Data Science', 'Social Computing', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'Ohio Center of Excellence in Knowledge-enabled Computing (Kno.e.sis), Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Wright State University', u'Ohio Center of Excellence in Knowledge-enabled Computing (Kno.e.sis), Department of Psychology, Wright State University', u'MIS Branch, United Nations Population Fund Headquarters (UNFPA)']]
[u'A new method for eliminating blur caused by the rotational motion of the images', ['Seyed Mohammad Ali Sanipour', 'Iman Ahadi Akhlaghi'], u'2015-03-10', u'The aim of this investigation is to evaluate a new method for blur elimination caused by rotational motion of any object, assuming that the center and the angle of the rotation are known. In this new method, which is called Enhanced Rotational De-convolution Conjugate Gradient (ERD-CG), first we enhanced the RD method for the blurred images, and then we combined the ERD method with the CG method (which is the reconstruction of iterative method). The experimental results are promising and show that the proposed method outperforms both RD and CG, significantly.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/872/', ['Computer Vision', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Electrical Engineering, Sadjad University of Technology']]
[u'Analysis of pollen-specific alternative splicing in Arabidopsis thaliana via semi-quantitative PCR', ['April D Estrada', 'Nowlan H Freese', 'Ivory C Blakley', 'Ann E Loraine'], u'2015-03-10', u'Alternative splicing enables a single gene to produce multiple mRNA isoforms by varying splice site selection. In animals, alternative splicing of mRNA isoforms between cell types is widespread and supports cellular differentiation. In plants, at least 20% of multi-exon genes are alternatively spliced, but the extent and significance of tissue-specific splicing is less well understood, partly because it is difficult to isolate cells of a single type. Pollen is a useful model system to study tissue-specific splicing in higher plants because pollen grains contain only two cell types and can be collected in large amounts without damaging cells. Previously, we identified pollen-specific splicing patterns by comparing RNA-Seq data from Arabidopsis pollen and leaves. Here, we used semi-quantitative PCR to validate pollen-specific splicing patterns among genes where RNA-Seq data analysis indicated splicing was most different between pollen and leaves. PCR testing confirmed eight of nine alternative splicing patterns, and results from the ninth were inconclusive. In four genes, alternative transcriptional start sites coincided with alternative splicing. This study highlights the value of the low-cost PCR assay as a method of validating RNA-Seq results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/594/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Bioinformatics and Genomics, University of North Carolina at Charlotte']]
[u'Progressive enlargement of a previously coiled posterior inferior cerebellar artery aneurysm', ['Michael Karsy', 'Aaron Cutler', 'Christian Bowers', 'Richard Schmidt'], u'2015-03-10', u'Multidisciplinary treatment of cerebral aneurysms includes endovascular coiling and open neurosurgical clipping techniques, however our understanding of long-term outcomes after coiling of large cerebral aneurysms remains limited. We present a case involving the development of a previously coiled posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) aneurysm in a 64-year-old man with lesion enlargement and symptomatic mass effect. CT angiogram demonstrated a 3.9\xd72.6\xd72.4-cm partially thrombosed aneurysm adjacent to the left vertebral artery. The patient underwent resection to relieve the compressive effect. We discuss the efficacy of endovascular coiling and surgical clipping in this case as well as review the relevant literature.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/882/', ['Neurology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Department of Neurosurgery, University of Utah']]
[u'Childhood socioeconomic deprivation, but not current mood, is associated with behavioural disinhibition in adults', ['Tunde Paal', 'Thomas Carpenter', 'Daniel Nettle'], u'2015-03-09', u'There is evidence to suggest that impulsivity is predicted by socioeconomic background, with people from more deprived backgrounds tending to be more impulsive, and by current mood, with poorer mood associated with greater impulsivity. However, impulsivity is not a unitary construct, and previous research in this area has focused on measures of \u2018waiting\u2019 impulsivity rather than behavioural disinhibition. We administered a standard measure of behavioural disinhibition, the stop-signal task, to 58 adult participants from a community sample. We had measured socioeconomic background using participant postcode at age 16, and assigned participants to receive either a neutral or a negative mood induction. We found no effects of mood on behavioural disinhibition, but we found a significant effect of socioeconomic background. Participants with more deprived postcodes at age 16 showed longer stop-signal reaction times, and hence greater behavioural disinhibition. The pattern was independent of participant age and overall reaction time. Greater behavioural disinhibition may be a consequence of experiencing childhood socioeconomic deprivation, and could play a role in maintaining social gradients in outcomes such as addiction.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/881/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Institute of Psychology, University of Pecs', u'Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle University']]
[u'Sight or smell? Behavioural and heart rate responses in subordinate rainbow trout exposed to cues from dominant fish', ['Johan Hojesjo', 'Michael Axelsson', 'Ronja Dahy', 'Lena Gustavsson', 'Jorgen I Johnsson'], u'2015-03-09', u'Many animals, including fish, can utilize both vision and the chemical senses in intra-specific communication. However, the relative influence of these sensory modalities on behavioral and physiological responses in social interactions is not well understood. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the relative effects of visual and chemical stimuli from dominant individuals on the behavioral and physiological responses of subordinate rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). External electrodes were used to detect ECG signals from free-swimming fish. This method allowed the simultaneous recording of behavioral and physiological responses, and possible sex differences in these responses were also investigated. The results suggest that, in this context, visual cues are more important than chemical cues in settling the social hierarchy in rainbow trout because a combination of chemical and visual exposure generally yielded a response in focal fish that was similar to the response elicited by visual exposure alone. Both activity and physiological responses were most pronounced during the first ten seconds after exposure, with subordinate fish moving closer to the dominant, accompanied by a strong bradycardic response. Furthermore, females acted more boldly and moved closer to the dominant fish than males, but here the effect of the modes was additive, with a stronger effect of the combined visual and chemical exposure. Overall, the extra information furnished to the fish in the form of chemical cues did not change either the behavioral or the physiological response. This result suggests that visual cues are more important than chemically mediated ones for social communication and individual recognition in rainbow trout.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/880/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biophysics', 'Ecology'], [u'University of Gothenburg, Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences']]
[u'Programming languages popularity and implications to testing programmable logic controllers', ['Eduard P Enoiu'], u'2015-03-09', u'The popularity of domain-specific programming languages has implications on how we test software in these domain industries. For example for programmable logic controllers five standard languages were defined and used in practice. Detailed data on popularity of these languages should show some implications on what languages to target when testing. We suggest that massive new data sources resulting from programmers may offer a new perspective on how we test domain-specific languages. By analyzing Google query volumes for search terms related to programmable logic controllers languages, we find patterns that may be interpreted as signs of actual usage in practice. Comparing with the current test generation approaches proposed by researchers our results illustrate both potentials and threats on what is needed in reality when testing programmable logic controllers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/879/', ['Software Engineering'], [u'Software Testing Laboratory, M\xe4lardalen University']]
[u'Patterns of evolution of MHC Class II genes of crows (Corvus) suggest trans-species polymorphism', ['John A Eimes', 'Andrea K Townsend', 'Irem Sepil', 'Isao Nishiumi', 'Yoko Satta'], u'2015-03-08', u'A distinguishing characteristic of genes that code for the major histocompatibility complex (MHC) is that alleles often share more similarity between, rather than within species. There are two likely mechanisms that can explain this pattern: convergent evolution and trans-species polymorphism (TSP), in which ancient allelic lineages are maintained by balancing selection and retained by descendant species. Distinguishing between these two mechanisms has major implications in how we view adaptation of immune genes. In this study we analyzed exon 2 of the MHC class IIB in three passerine bird species in the genus Corvus: jungle crows (Corvus macrorhynchos japonensis) American crows (C. brachyrhynchos) and carrion crows (C. corone orientalis). Carrion crows and American crows are recently diverged, but allopatric, sister species, whereas carrion crows and jungle crows are more distantly related but sympatric species, and possibly share pathogens linked to MHC IIB polymorphisms. These patterns of evolutionary divergence and current geographic ranges enabled us to test for trans-species polymorphism and convergent evolution of the MHC IIB in crows. Phylogenetic reconstructions of MHC IIB sequences revealed several well supported interspecific clusters containing all three species, and there was no biased clustering of variants among the sympatric carrion crows and jungle crows. The topologies of phylogenetic trees constructed from putatively selected sites were remarkably different than those constructed from putatively neutral sites. In addition, trees constructed non-synonymous substitutions from a continuous fragment of exon 2 had more, and generally more inclusive, supported interspecific MHC IIB variant clusters than those constructed from the same fragment using synonymous substitutions. These phylogenetic patterns suggest that recombination, especially gene conversion, has partially erased the signal of allelic ancestry in these species. While clustering of positively selected amino acids by supertyping revealed a single supertype shared by only jungle and carrion crows, a pattern consistent with convergence, the overall phylogenetic patterns we observed suggest that TSP, rather than convergence, explains the interspecific allelic similarity of MHC IIB genes in these species of crows.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/621/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Zoology', 'Immunology'], [u'Department of Evolutionary Studies of Biosystems, Graduate University for Advanced Studies (SOKENDAI)', u'Department of Biology, Hamilton College', u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford', u'Department of Zoology, National Museum of Nature and Science']]
[u'Allele specific expression in worker reproduction genes in the bumblebee Bombus terrestris', ['Harindra E Amarasinghe', 'Bradley J Toghill', 'Eamonn B Mallon'], u'2015-03-07', u'Genomic imprinting is the differential expression of alleles, with the expression being dependent upon the sex of the parent from which it was inherited. Hymenopteran insects (ants, bees and wasps) are emerging as potential models for genomic imprinting and epigenetics. As a first step in establishing the possibility of genomic imprinting in the bumblebee, Bombus terrestris, we search for allele specific expression in twelve genes associated with worker reproduction. We found that the patrigene (allele from the father) is more expressed than the matrigene (allele from the mother) in Ecdysone 20 monooxygenase. This enzyme catalyses the reaction which turns the ecdysteroid ecdysone into 20-hydroxyecdysone, also an ecdysteroid. Both of these ecdysteroids are important for worker reproduction in the bumblebee.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/878/', ['Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Leicester', u'Department of Cardiovascular Sciences, University of Leicester']]
[u'Contributions to a neurophysiology of meaning: The interpretation of written messages could be an automatic stimulus-reaction mechanism before becoming conscious processing of information', ['Roberto Maffei', 'Livia S Convertini', 'Sabrina Quatraro', 'Stefania Ressa', 'Annalisa Velasco'], u'2015-03-07', u"Background. Interpretation is the process through which humans attribute meanings to every input they grasp from their natural or social environment. Formulation and exchange of meanings through natural language are basic aspects of human behaviour and important neuroscience subjects; from long ago, they are the object of dedicated scientific research. Two main theoretical positions (cognitivism and embodied cognition) are at present confronting each other; however, available data is not conclusive and scientific knowledge of the interpretation process is still unsatisfactory. Our work proposes some contributions aimed to improve it. Methodology. Our field research involved a random sample of 102 adults. We presented them a real world-like case of written communication using unabridged message texts. We collected data (written accounts by participants about their interpretations) in controlled conditions through a specially designed questionnaire (closed and opened answers). Finally, we carried out qualitative and quantitative analyses through some fundamental statistics. Principal Findings. While readers are expected to concentrate on the text\u2019s content, they rather report focusing on the most varied and unpredictable components: certain physical features of the message (e.g. the message\u2019s period lengths) as well as meta-information like the position of a statement or even the lack of some content. Just about 12% of the participants' indications point directly at the text's content. Our data converge on the hypothesis that the components of a message work at first like physical stimuli, causing readers' automatic (body level) reactions independent of the conscious attribution of meaning. So, interpretation would be a (learned) stimulus-reaction mechanism, before switching to information processing, and the basis of meaning could be perceptual/analogical, before propositional/digital. We carried out a first check of our hypothesis: the employed case contained the emerging of a conflict and two versions (\u201cH\u201d and \u201cS\u201d, same content, different forms) of a reply to be sent at a crucial point. We collected the participants\u2019 (independent) interpretations of the two versions; then, we asked them to choose which one could solve the conflict; finally, we assessed the coherence between interpretations and choice on a 4-level scale. The analysis of the coherence levels' distribution returned that, with regards to our expectations, incoherence levels are over-represented; such imbalance is totally ascribable to \u201cH\u201d choosers. \u201cH\u201d and \u201cS\u201d choosers show significant differences (p<<0.01) in the distributions of coherence levels, what is inconsistent with the traditional hypothesis of a linear information processing resulting in the final choice. In the end, with respect to the currently opposing theories, we found out that our hypothesis has either important convergences or at least one critical divergence, joined with the capacity to encompass they both.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/358/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'A.L.B.E.R.T. Research group, ARPA-Firenze - Cultural association']]
[u'Quantifying the impact of environmental factors on the spatiotemporal structure of insect communities in a semi-arid Sabkha ecosystem', ['Haroun Chenchouni', 'Taha Menasria', 'Souad Neffar', 'Smail Chafaa', 'Lies Bradai', 'Rachid Chaibi', 'Mohamed Nacer Mekahlia', 'Djamel Bendjoudi', 'Abdelkrim Si Bachir'], u'2015-03-06', u'The current study highlights some knowledge on the diversity and structure of insect communities and trophic groups living in Sabkha Djendli (semi-arid area of Northeastern Algeria). The entomofauna was monthly sampled from March to November 2006 using pitfall traps at eight sites located at the vicinity of the Sabkha. Structural and diversity parameters (species richness, Shannon index, evenness) were measured for both insect orders and trophic guilds. The canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) was applied to determine how vegetation parameters (species richness and cover) influence spatial and seasonal fluctuations of insect assemblages. The catches totalled 434 insect individuals classified into 75 species, 62 genera, 31 families and 7 orders, where Coleoptera and Hymenoptera were the most abundant and constant over seasons and study stations. Spring and autumn presented the highest values of diversity parameters. Individual-based Chao-1 species richness estimator indicated 126 species for the total individuals captured in the Sabkha. Based on catch abundances, the structure of functional trophic groups was predators (37.3%), saprophages (26.7%), phytophages (20.5%), polyphages (10.8%), coprophages (4.6%); whereas in terms of numbers of species, they can be classified as phytophages (40%), predators (25.3%), polyphages (13.3%), saprophages (12%), coprophages (9.3%). The CCA demonstrated that phytophages and saprophages as well as Coleoptera and Orthoptera were positively correlated with the two parameters of vegetation, especially in spring and summer. While the abundance of coprophages was positively correlated with species richness of plants, polyphage density was positively associated with vegetation cover. The insect community showed high taxonomic and functional diversity that is closely related to diversity and vegetation cover in different site stations and seasons.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/741/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Entomology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Faculty of Exact Sciences and Natural and Life Sciences, University of Tebessa', u'Department of Applied Biology, Faculty of Exact Sciences and Natural and Life Sciences, University of Tebessa', u'Department of Natural and Life Sciences, Faculty of Sciences, University of El Hadj Lakhdar', u'Department of Biology, Faculty of Natural and Life Sciences, University of Kasdi Merbah', u'Department of Biology, Faculty of Sciences, University of Amar Telidji', u'Department of Biology of Populations and Organisms, Faculty of Agro-veterinary and Biology, University of Saad Dahlab']]
[u'Alcohol and sex: the influence of friendship networks on co-occurring risky health behaviors of U.S. adolescents', ['Kwon Chan Jeon', 'Patricia Goodson'], u'2015-03-06', u'Background: U.S. adolescents face the reality that engaging in one risky health behavior facilitates co-occurring risky behaviors. Moreover, adolescents may change their behaviors to develop new friendships or to match the behavior of existing friends. These relationships among friends can lead to increase in risk-taking. Methods: Utilizing a nationally representative saturated sample (n=901) with friendship network data from two large schools in the Wave I of the National Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (Add Health), this study examined the influence of friendship network structure upon adolescents\u2019 sexual intercourse and alcohol consumption in tandem. Results: Findings highlighted that, in one school, adolescents in denser and smaller friendship networks were at higher risk for engaging in sexual intercourse and drinking alcohol simultaneously. Additionally, in this school, network attributes (i.e., out-degree and betweeness) and adolescents\u2019 age were associated with an increased risk of sexual intercourse and drinking behaviors. In the other school, more diffused friendship networks seemed to pose less risk of engaging in these two risk behaviors in tandem. Moreover, engagement in risky behaviors was significantly predicted by teens\u2019 age and gender, but there were no effects of network attributes on adolescents\u2019 risky behaviors. Conclusion: The influence of friendships on adolescents\u2019 sexual intercourse and drinking alcohol may play out in different ways, depending on the size and composition of the friendship networks and adolescents\u2019 characteristics. Therefore, structural features of friendship networks, such as denser and smaller networks, and characteristics of adolescents (i.e., age and gender) should be considered in developing intervention programs to reduce adolescents\u2019 risky behaviors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/877/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Health & Kinesiology, Texas A&M University']]
[u'Diversification patterns based on the largest morphological phylogenetic analysis of Pleurodira', ['Gabriel S Ferreira', 'Juliana Sterli', 'Mario Bronzati Filho', 'Max C Langer'], u'2015-03-06', u'Background. Most studies on pleurodiran turtles are about the behavior and/or feeding habits analyzes, description of new taxa or specimens (both extinct and extant), or phylogenetic analyzes of one of its subclades with extant taxa: Chelidae, Pelomedusidae or Podocnemididae. With the exception of some molecular phylogenies, there are no phylogenetic analyses of extant and extinct representatives of Pleurodira including all of its lineages. A broader understanding of the evolutionary history of Pleurodira requires a phylogenetic hypothesis based on more extensive taxonomic and character samplings.Methods. We constructed a taxon-character matrix including 227 morphological characters and 87 taxa from all the Pleurodira lineages, plus one stem Pan-Pleurodira, Notoemys laticentralis, and one stem-Testudinata, Proganochelys quenstedti, as outgroups. The resulting matrix was analyzed using parsimony, Tree Bisection and Reconnection (TBR) algorithms, with 5000 replicates, and a hold of 20. The obtained strict consensus tree was used as the basis of a diversification analysis using topology-based methods. A nestedgrowing tree approach was employed to create a corresponding tree for different intervals of the geological history of the group. Six distinct time bins were created for periods in which members of Pleurodira occur: Early Cretaceous, Late Cretaceous, Paleocene, Eocene, Miocene, and Recent.\nResults. All main pleurodiran clades were recovered in the strict consensus tree, but with some changes in their relationship compared to previous analyses, e.g. the inclusiveness of both Pelomedusoides and Bothremydidae. The diversification analysis shows that, after the establishment of the two major lineages (i.e. Chelidae and Pelomedusoides) in the Early Cretaceous, these subgroups diversified in distinct rates along their evolutionary history. Two main diversification shifts were identified: one at the early evolution of Podocnemoidea, during the Late Cretaceous, and another during the Miocene, deep nested in the Podocnemididae clade.\nDiscussion. The resulting strict consensus tree is the largest exclusive phylogenetic hypothesis for Pleurodira, including both extant and extinct taxa. Based on morphological data, it allows more inclusive inferences on the general morphological and diversification patterns of the group. The diversification pulses analysis suggests variation on the rates of diversification on the different pleurodiran clades. The first shift detected is related to the great radiation of Bothremydidae and Podocnemoidae in the Late Cretaceous; the second shift, detected in the Miocene, is related to a diversification within the Stereogenyina, a Podocnemididae clade. Ongoing analysis will determine which factors could enforce those different diversification rates in the evolution of Pleurodira.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/876/', ['Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Faculdade de Filosofia, Ci\xeancias e Letras de Ribeir\xe3o Preto, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo, Laborat\xf3rio de Paleontologia de Ribeir\xe3o Preto', u'CONICET - Museo Paleontol\xf3gico Egidio Feruglio', u'Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xe4t M\xfcnchen', u'Bayerische Staatssammlung f\xfcr Pal\xe4ontologie und Geologie']]
[u'Properties evaluation of silorane, low-shrinkage, non-flowable and flowable resin-based composites in dentistry', ['Rodrigo Maia', 'Rodrigo S Reis', 'Andre FV Moro', 'Cesar Perez', 'Barbara Pessoa', 'Katia RHC Dias'], u'2015-03-04', u'Purpose: This study tested the null hypothesis that different classes of direct restorative dental materials (silorane-based resin, low-shrinkage and conventional (non-flowable and flowable) resin-based composite (RBC)) do not differ from each other with regard to polymerization shrinkage, depth of cure, or microhardness. Methods: 140 RBC samples were fabricated and tested by one calibrated operator. Polymerization shrinkage was measured using a gas pycnometer both before and immediately after curing with 36 J/cm2 light energy density. Depth of cure was determined, using a penetrometer and the Knoop microhardness was tested from the top surface to a depth of 5 mm. Results: Considering polymerization shrinkage, the authors found significant differences (p<0,05) between different materials: non-flowable RBCs showed lower values, compared to flowable RBCs, with the silorane-based resin presenting the smallest shrinkage. The low shrinkage flowable composite performed similarly to non-flowable, with significant statistical differences compared to the two other flowable RBCs. Regarding to depth of cure, low-shrinkage flowable RBC were most effective compared to other groups. Microhardness was generally higher for the non-flowable vs. flowable RBCs (p<0.05). However, the values for low-shrinkage flowable did not differ significantly from those of non-flowable, but were significantly higher than those of the other flowable RBCs. Clinical Significance: RBCs have undergone many modifications as they have evolved and represent the most relevant restorative materials in today\u2019s dental practice. This study of low-shrinkage RBCs, conventional RBCs (non-flowable and flowable) and silorane-based composite \u2013 by in vitro evaluation of volumetric shrinkage, depth of cure and microhardness \u2013 reveals that although filler content is an important determinant of polymerization shrinkage, it is not the only variable that affects properties of materials that were tested in this study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/875/', ['Dentistry'], [u'Department of Operative Dentistry, College of Dentistry & Dental Clinics, The University of Iowa', u'Department of Operative Dentistry & Fixed Prosthodontics, UNIG University', u'Department of Operative Dentistry, State University of Rio de Janeiro', u'Departement of Dental Clinic, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Redescription of Neochelys franzeni (Schleich, 1993) from the middle Eocene, Messel Pit, of Germany, and a revision of morphological characters with importance for Pleurodira phylogeny', ['Edwin Cadena'], u'2015-03-04', u'Background. Neochelys franzeni (Schelich, 1993) is the only pleurodire or side-necked turtle from the middle Eocene, Messel Pit (the first UNESCO, World Natural Heritage Site in Germany, since 1995). The original description of the species is based on two specimens SMF ME 1091 (Holotype) and 715 (Paratype) housed at the Senckenberg Museum Frankfurt. The excellent preservation of complete and articulated skeletons of this species makes it a key taxon for understanding the evolution and phylogeny of the European Neochelys genus and its relationships with South American and African-Madagascar podocnemidids. Methods. Seven specimens of Neochelys franzeni, including hatchlings, juveniles, and adults were studied, and the information obtained for this species was included in a new compiled character-taxon matrix of Pleurodira, built from previous studies and new observations. Phylogenetic analyses were run using Parsimony algorithm on PAUP version 4.0a136 obtaining strict consensus trees after 10000 random replicates, boostrap values and Decay indices were also calculated to support the topology of obtained clades. Results. A revised diagnosis for the species is defined here, indicating that Neochelys franzeni differs from other members of the genus by the presence of a basisphenoid with a very acute anterior tip; an interparietal scute with a heart-like shape with a deep concave anteromedial margin; and a ridge running along the neural series of the carapace. Discussion. The phylogenetical analysis indicates that Neochelys spp. group is better resolved as closer to Erymnochelys madagascariensis-Peltocephalus dumerilanus inside Podocnemididae.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/874/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Paleoherpetology, Senckenberg Museum']]
[u'A new pleurodire turtle (Chelonii) from Adamantina Formation (Bauru Group), Upper Cretaceous of Brazil', ['Edio-Ernst Kischlat'], u'2015-03-04', u'Background. A new podocnemidid taxon from the Adamantina Formation (Campanian to Maastrichtian), Bauru Group - Paran\xe1 Basin (southeastern Brazil) is presented. Some multifragmented specimens were discovered near 30 years ago, in the region of \xc1lvarez Machado (State of S\xe3o Paulo) on the farm of Mr. Yoshitoshi Myzobuchi (a.k.a "Myzobuchi Site"), and they were mounted piece by piece of a huge puzzle. The remains comprise two incomplete carapace, 4 fragmented plastra, some cervical vertebrae, scapular and pelvic girdles, and limb bones of at least 4 specimens. The sauropod Gondwanatitan faustoi was described from this same site that also provided some crocodile remains. Methods. This new Adamantina taxon was codified according Gabriel S. Ferreira\u2019s pleurodire dataset (unpublished MSc thesis) which comprises an extensive taxonomic sampling (85 taxa, 226 characters, some multistate), including fossil and recent taxa from all pleurodiran lineages. Three software packages (PAUP*, WinClada and TNT) were used to evaluate its phylogenetic position. Results. All searches resulted on most parsimonious trees of same lenght (1011 steps), and similar strict consensus topology. The new Adamantina taxon is in Bairdemys-Stereogenys lineage, after the Podocnemis split and sequentially between the eocenic Egyptian fossil Neochelys fajumensis and the recent South American Peltocephalus dumerilianus. Discussion. The plastral bones of this new taxon are relatively thick and the most striking feature is the ankylosed suture between the pubis and the xiphiplastron. In any other pleurodire the articular faces between the pubis and the xiphiplastron have several osseous lamellae but in the new taxon this ankylosed articulation is simply broken (to the contrary, the articular faces between the ischium and xiphisplastron are preserved and have these lamellae). This apparently is also the case for Podocnemis harrisi Pacheco, 1910, which is considered a nomen dubium by several authors. It also has a thick xiphiplastron, which is the only holotypic bone preserved (but lost long time ago) and shows the pubic articular face apparently with no lamellae, but the ischiadic one clearly showing them, as illustrated in Pacheco (1910). It also shows some minor differences in the morphology with an intumescence mainly in the region of the pubic articular face which is absent in the present specimens. Podocnemis harrisi is also from Adamantina Formation, but from the City of Colina away 300 km NE from the City of \xc1lvarez Machado, and the ankylosed puboxiphiplastral suture suggest a close phylogenetic relationship between both that is here expressed as a new combination with the \xc1lvarez Machado new nominative genus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/873/', ['Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'SUREG-PA, Servi\xe7o Geol\xf3gico do Brasil (CPRM)']]
[u'Using Bayesian hierarchical models and random forest algorithm for habitat use studies: a case of nest site selection of the crested ibis at regional scales', ['Xinhai Li', 'Tianqing Zhai', 'Yan Jiao', 'Guiming Wang'], u'2015-03-03', u'The association of species distribution and environmental variables is often complex, with nonlinear and interacting effects. Bayesian hierarchical models can quantify linear and high order effects of the variables, as well as their interaction effects. Their strength is to take into account the uncertainties in observation, models, and parameters. However, the model selection process is usually time-consuming, especially when the number of environmental variables is large. Random forest, an efficient machine learning algorithm, can rank the environmental variables so as to facilitate the model selection process. We analyzed the nest site selection of the crested ibis (Nipponia nippon) at watersheds in its distribution range. The crested ibis has attracted much attention in the past 30 years due to its extremely low population level, and now it has recovered to over 1,000 individuals in the wild. We built Bayesian hierarchical models to quantify the association between the number of nests in 95 watersheds and nine environmental variables of these watersheds. We applied random forest to check the effect of every variable and removed the unimportant variables from the hierarchical models. Unlike our previous studies, we found that the interaction between the area of rice paddy and the area of water bodies (i.e. rivers, lakes and ponds) had most contribution to the nest site selection, whereas the linear terms of either rice paddy or water body had little effects. The detection probability of the nests during the surveys was inversely associated with elevation and the standard deviation of elevation (i.e. roughness of the landscape) in the watershed. Our models provide the insight that the crested ibis need both rice paddies and water bodies in their annual life cycle. Habitat protection practices should cover not only rice paddies, but also water bodies to ensure long term survival of this endangered bird.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/871/', ['Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Statistics'], [u'Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Shaanxi Hanzhong Crested Ibis National Nature Reserve', u'Department of Fish and Wildlife Conservation, Virginia Tech', u'Department of Wildlife, Fisheries and Aquaculture, Mississippi State University']]
[u'Is the matamata only one species? Morphological variation and color polymorphism in the South American turtle Chelus fimbriatus (Schneider, 1783) (Pleurodira: Chelidae)', ['Rafaella C Garbin', 'Ulisses Caramaschi'], u'2015-03-02', u'Background. Studies on the geographic variation of the matamata, Chelus fimbriatus, have previously demonstrated differences between carapace shape, plastral pigmentation and the ventral coloration of the neck between populations from the Amazon and Orinoco river basins, but did not discuss whether these populations should be considered different species. The aim of this study is to evaluate the taxonomic status of C. fimbriatus and to describe its intraspecific and ontogenetic variability and sexual dimorphism based on morphology and osteology. Methods. We analyzed 277 morphological characters and 138 osteological characters of the skull and shell of 82 matamatas from the four known populations (Amazon, Orinoco, Guyana and Tocantins) and performed the Population Aggregation Analysis (PAA) species delimitation test in searching for character states that are exclusive to and fixed between populations. The t Student test was also performed in order to observe sexual dimorphism. Results. Considerable overlap in character states between different populations prevents the recognition of these populations as independent species. Chelus fimbriatus has a high level of polymorphism, particularly among morphological and color pattern characters. Unlike what have been stated on previous studies, we recognise four different carapace shapes, of which the anteriorly larger oval shape is the most common one. Two coloration patterns can be found both for the plastron and the carapace that are strongly correlated with one another, but no such correlation was observed with geographic distribution. We furthermore recognise three states of neck coloration pattern. Ontogenetic variability was observed in the coloration of the carapace, plastron, and the underside of the neck, in that juveniles have a stronger pigmentation than adults. Sexual dimorphism was established for six morphometric variables of the shell and 20 variables of the skull. As expected, females are significant larger than males for all these variables, such as carapace, plastron and skull length. New osteological characters, such as the presence of a serrated medial process in the palatine and a pair of anterolateral tubercles in the basioccipital were observed. Discussion. This is the first study to confirm the presence of sexual dimorphism in C. fimbriatus using morphological and morphometric variables and to document infraspecific variation in detail. The possible presence of two subspecies has been discussed since the 19th century based on alleged geographic variation in coloration patterns. However, this hypothesis could not be confirmed in the context of this study and the matamata should therefore still be considered a single species with a wide distribution range.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/870/', ['Biodiversity', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Geosciences, University of Fribourg', u'Departamento de Vertebrados, Museu Nacional, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'The Copenhagen Women Study: preliminary data related to cardiovascular health', ['Ylva Hellsten', 'Martina Slingsby', 'Jon Egelund', 'Jens Bangsbo', 'Michael Nyberg'], u'2015-03-02', u'Background  : After menopause women experience a markedly increased risk of cardiovascular events due to the loss of estrogen. As estrogen replacement is associated with negative side effects, a more attractive alternative to help maintain a good cardiovascular and metabolic health status may be regular physical activity. In this ongoing study, our aim is to elucidate the beneficial effects of a period of physical activity on a number of health related parametres in pre- and post-menopausal women. Methods  : The study has been approved by the ethics committee of Capitol Region of Denmark (H-1-2012-150). Informed consent was given by the participants prior to inclusion in the study. Pre and post menopausal women, between the age of 45 and 57 years of age are recruited. The women are sedentary non-smokers with no known chronic diseases. The women undergo a three month training program with spinning training three times per week. Before and after the training period they are characterized with regard to daily activity level by use of accelerometry ( actibelt  \xae  ), food intake, body composition, fitness level, cardiac function, platelet function, and vascular function. Results  : As the study is ongoing, results are preliminary. Based on our practical experience so far we can conclude that actibelt  \xae  is an effective and well-functioning means of determining daily activity. Moreover, the preliminary data indicate that post-menopausal women have reduced vascular and platelet function compared to pre-menopausal women. The study also shows that aspects of both vascular and platelet function appear to be improved by the three month training period. Both pre and post-menopausal women experience improved fitness levels and plasma lipid profile. Discussion/conclusion  : The preliminary data from this study show that already soon after menopause impairments occur in cardiovascular health status and that these impairments may be more related to the loss of estrogen than to age. Exercise training by spinning is an effective mean to improve fitness and a number of health related parametres in middle aged women. We propose that physical activity can be a valuable alternative to estrogen replacement.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/869/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', "Women's Health"], [u'Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Server side algorithms for WHLK (Watermark, Hardware Parameters and License Key) framework', ['Nishant Gupta', 'Shubhnandan S. Jamwal'], u'2015-03-01', u'Software piracy is the most significant and burning issue in the age of the internet. Software piracy has been a direct threat for software vendors in terms of revenue and, therefore, a number of effective and efficient techniques have been employed for the detection and prevention of software piracy. One very important technique is software watermarking and using registration keys. This paper proposes the Server-side algorithms for registration and embedding the watermark into the software using the WHLK (Watermark, Hardware Parameters and License Key) approach. We have tested the algorithms and the analysis of the proposed algorithms proves that these registration algorithms are more reliable and efficient in comparison to other techniques.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/868/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Emerging Technologies', 'Security and Privacy', 'Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Computer Science & IT, University of Jammu']]
[u'Not all jellyfish are equal: isotopic evidence for inter- and intraspecific variation in jellyfish trophic ecology', ['Nicholas E.C. Fleming', 'Chris Harrod', 'Jason Newton', 'Jonathan D.R. Houghton'], u'2015-03-01', u'Jellyfish are highly topical within studies of pelagic food-webs and there is a growing realisation that their role is more complex than once thought. Efforts being made to include jellyfish within fisheries and ecosystem models are an important step forward, but our present understanding of their underlying trophic ecology can lead to their over-simplification in these models. Gelatinous zooplankton represent a polyphyletic assemblage spanning >1,400 species that inhabit coastal seas to the deep-ocean and employ a wide variety of foraging strategies. Despite this diversity, many contemporary modelling approaches include jellyfish as a single functional group feeding at one or two trophic levels at most. Recent reviews have drawn attention to this issue and highlighted the need for improved communication between biologists and theoreticians if this problem is to be overcome. We used stable isotopes to investigate the trophic ecology of three co-occurring scyphozoan jellyfish species (Aurelia aurita, Cyanea lamarckii and C. capillata) within a temperate, coastal food-web in the NE Atlantic. Using information on individual size, time of year and \u03b413C and \u03b415N stable isotope values we examined: (1) whether all jellyfish could be considered as a single functional group, or showed distinct inter-specific differences in trophic ecology; (2) Were size-based shifts in trophic position, found previously in A. aurita, a common trait across species?; (3) When considered collectively, did the trophic position of three sympatric species remain constant over time? Differences in \u03b415N (trophic position) were evident between all three species, with size-based and temporal shifts in \u03b415N apparent in A. aurita and C. capillata. The isotopic niche width for all species combined increased throughout the season, reflecting temporal shifts in trophic position and seasonal succession in these gelatinous species. Taken together, these findings support previous assertions that jellyfish require more robust inclusion in marine fisheries or ecosystem models.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/867/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u"School of Biological Sciences, Queen's University", u'Queen\u2019s University Belfast Marine Laboratory', u'Instituto de Ciencias Naturales Alexander von Humboldt, Universidad de Antofagsta', u'NERC Life Sciences Mass Spectrometry Facility, Scottish Universities Environmental Research Centre']]
[u'Protein and mRNA levels support the notion that a genetic regulatory circuit controls growth phases in E. coli populations', ['Agustino Martinez-Antonio'], u'2015-03-01', u'Bacterial populations transition between growing and non-growing phases, based on nutrient availability and stress conditions. The hallmark of a growing state is anabolism, including DNA replication and cell division. In contrast, bacteria in a growth-arrested state acquire a resistant physiology and diminished metabolism. However, there is little knowledge on how this transition occurs at the molecular level. Here, we provide new evidence that a multi-element genetic regulatory circuit might work to maintain genetic control among growth-phase transitions in Escherichia coli. This work contributes to the discovering of design principles behind the performance of biological functions, which could be of relevance on the new disciplines of biological engineering and synthetic biology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/866/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Departamento de Ingenier\xeda Gen\xe9tica, Centro de Investigaci\xf3n y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto Polit\xe9cnico Nacional, Unidad Irapuato']]
[u'The role of habitat heterogeneity on signal evolution in predator\u2013prey interactions, with implications for the evolution of crypsis and aposematism', ['Marcio R Pie'], u'2015-03-01', u'Little is known about mechanisms promoting the diversity of antipredation strategies found in nature. In this study I explore how habitat heterogeneity may have profound effects on predator\u2013prey communication. Habitat heterogeneity inevitably increases background noise in communication systems. Therefore, as habitat heterogeneity increases, an organism must produce more signal in order to convey the same amount of information (signal\u2013to\u2013noise ratio; S/N). Therefore, all else equal, strategies maximizing S/N (e.g. aposematism, sexually\u2013selected traits) should become more exacerbated as habitat heterogeneity increases, whereas strategies minimizing S/N (e.g. crypsis) should show the opposite trend. A test of this hypothesis is provided based on information on detection-avoidance strategies of Ghanaian preying mantids. If this hypothesis is widely applicable, it can provide a parsimonious explanation for the origin of aposematism, given that the same organisms can become more cryptic or aposematic simply by shifting their habitats and the corresponding levels of background noise.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/865/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal do Paran\xe1']]
[u'Similarity thresholds used in short read assembly reduce the comparability of population histories across species', ['Michael G Harvey', 'Caroline Duffie Judy', 'Glenn F Seeholzer', 'James M Maley', 'Gary R Graves', 'Robb T Brumfield'], u'2015-02-28', u"Comparing inferences among datasets generated using short read sequencing may provide insight into the concerted effects of evolutionary processes across organisms, but comparisons are complicated by biases introduced during dataset assembly. Sequence similarity thresholds allow the de novo assembly of short reads into loci for analysis, but the resulting datasets are sensitive to both the similarity threshold used and to the variation naturally present in the organism under study. Stringent thresholds as well as highly variable species may result in datasets in which divergent alleles are lost or divided into separate loci ('over-splitting'), whereas liberal thresholds increase the risk of paralogous loci being combined into a single locus (\u2018under-splitting\u2019). Comparisons among datasets or species are therefore potentially biased if different similarity thresholds are applied or if the species differ in levels of genetic variation. We examine the impact of a range of similarity thresholds on assembly of empirical short read datasets from populations of four different non-model bird lineages (species or species pairs) with different levels of genetic divergence. We find that, in all species, stringent similarity thresholds result in fewer alleles per locus than more liberal thresholds, which appears to be the result of high levels of over-splitting at stringent thresholds. The frequency of putative under-splitting, conversely, is low at all thresholds. Inferred genetic distances between individuals, gene tree depths, and estimates of the ancestral mutation-scaled effective population size (\u03b8) differ depending upon the similarity threshold applied. Relative differences in inferences across species differ even when the same threshold is applied, but may be dramatically different when datasets assembled under different thresholds are compared. We suggest some best practices for assembling short read data to maximize comparability, such as using more liberal thresholds and examining the impact of different thresholds on each dataset.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/864/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Museum of Natural Science and Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University', u'Department of Vertebrate Zoology, MRC-116, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution', u'Moore Laboratory of Zoology, Occidental College', u'Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate, Natural History Museum of Denmark,University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Morphological variation in Naomichelys (Testudinata: Solemydidae): insights from a new specimen from the Lower Cretaceous Cloverly Formation of Montana', ['Daniel Lawver'], u'2015-02-28', u'Background. Solemydidae is an enigmatic clade of stem turtles, which is primarily represented by fragmentary shell material found in Upper Jurassic and Cretaceous deposits of Europe and North America. Specimens are typically identified by a distinct surface ornamentation comprised of tall, narrow tubercles, which are often incompletely preserved due to taphonomic processes. The only currently recognized North American species of Solemydidae, Naomichelys speciosa was erected in 1908 on the basis of a nearly complete entoplastron from the Lower Cretaceous Cloverly Formation of Montana; however, a far more complete specimen from the Lower Cretaceous Antler Formation of Texas (FMNH PR273) was recently referred to this species and has shed light on the morphology of Naomichelys. Here, I describe a partial skeleton (MOR 941) that was discovered in 1995 near the type locality in Montana, which allows for the first look at variation in many of the skeletal elements of the genus. Methods. Morphological variation of Naomichelys was determined by comparison of MOR 941 to the holotype specimen and FMNH PR273 from the literature. Results. MOR 941 is referable to Solemydidae based on a large, diamond shaped entoplastron, which exhibits the distinctive solemydid surface ornamentation and an entoplastral scute, and is referable to Naomichelys because of its near identical morphology to that of the holotype. This specimen consists of the carapace, plastron, four cervical vertebrae, both shoulder girdles, and the right femur. Preserved carapacial elements are the right costals and peripherals in articulation, albeit somewhat crushed, disarticulated left costals, and a single neural. Using peripheral and costal sutures as well as marginal sulci as landmarks, peripherals 1 \u2013 4 are identified, which indicates that the nuchal notch is either reduced or lacking completely. The plastron is well preserved with only portions of the left bridge and xiphiplastra missing and a central plastral fontanel is completely lacking. Cervical vertebrae 5 \u2013 8 are preserved and show varying states of completeness with C7 being the most complete. Cervical 5 preserves a ventral keel on the centrum that is well developed and projects well beyond the central articulations. The shoulder girdle elements are similar to FMNH PR273 but are less well preserved and are not sutured together. The femur is complete and almost identical to FMNH PR273; however, the distal condyles are equally developed. Discussion. The morphological differences between MOR 941 and the Texas material suggest two plausible conclusions. 1) They demonstrate two different ontogenetic stages of development, with MOR 941 representing a skeletally more mature, albeit smaller individual; or 2) there are two distinct species of Naomichelys from the Lower Cretaceous of North America.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/863/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, Montana State University']]
[u'Phylogenetic relationships and biogeographical history of the large extinct European testudinids', ['Evangelos Vlachos', 'Adan Perez-Garcia', 'Marton Rabi'], u'2015-02-28', u'Background. Large-sized testudinids had a long evolutionary history in Europe during the last 50 million years before becoming extinct in the beginning of the Pleistocene. Despite a 150-year long history in research and a decent fossil record, the European large testudinids have received limited attention so far. Methods. New excavations, descriptions of new specimens from Greece, Spain and Germany, revisions of previously published European taxa and comparative studies with extant testudinids now provide a major advancement in understanding the anatomy and evolutionary history of these turtles. This contribution aims to provide an updated summary of the accumulated knowledge on European large tortoises and to explore in detail their phylogenetic relationships in a global context (including small-sized extinct and extant taxa). The phylogenetic analysis is based on a new character/taxon matrix of morphological characters. Parsimony analysis was performed both with and without molecular backbone constraints. Results. We describe new material of large testudinids from Greece, Spain and Germany and revise most of the available material that has been previously published. Our morphology-based results are promising since they are consistent with recent molecular studies in identifying large testudinids traditionally referred to the Geochelone complex as polyphyletic. Furthermore, we were able to reproduce the molecular phylogeny of Mediterranean tortoises (Testudona). Discussion. The phylogenetic framework presented here allows addressing several open questions of the history of testudinids. First of all, it hints to a more complex biogeographic history of European testudinids than previously recognized. Although the early Paleogene history of testudinids cannot be accurately traced at the moment it seems probable that, besides Asia and North America, Europe also played a major role in the early diversification of Testudinidae. We demonstrate that large European testudinids do not form a monophyletic lineage. The widely recognized genus Cheirogaster should only include the Eocene type species, and exclude other large Paleogene or giant Neogene taxa so far known. Our analysis reveals that large size evolved independently in several clades and in several continents during warmer parts of the Cenozoic. Besides this general scheme other factors might have played a role regionally (e.g. changes in vegetation, island isolation).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/862/', ['Paleontology'], [u'CONICET, Museo Paleontol\xf3gico Egidio Feruglio', u'School of Geology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki', u'Centro de Geologia, Faculdade de Ci\xeancias, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Grupo de Biolog\xeda Evolutiva, Facultad de Ciencias, UNED', u'Institut f\xfcr Geowissenschaften, University of T\xfcbingen', u'Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Lend\xfclet Dinosaur Research Group']]
[u'Persistent burnout theory of chronic fatigue syndrome', ['David Jameson'], u'2015-02-27', u'There is no agreement on the etiology of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS), and the main theories (behavioural and viral/immune) do not satisfactorily explain all findings. A growing body of evidence shows that CFS appears to be a dysfunction of the stress system\u2014and the hypothalamic\u2013pituitary\u2013adrenal (HPA) axis in particular\u2014as a result of chronic stress. CFS shares many similarities to occupational burnout, including similar symptoms, physiological abnormalities and triggers. After a review of the available evidence, I hypothesize that CFS is a state of persistent burnout that remains after the initial stressors have been removed. This persistence may be due to a combination of a dysregulation of the HPA axis and behavioural factors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/860/', ['Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'N/A']]
[u'Skull morphometrics of the Late Cretaceous side-necked turtle Bauruemys elegans (Pleurodira, Podocnemididae) from Presidente Prudente Formation, S\xe3o Paulo, Brazil', ['Thiago F. Mariani', 'Pedro S. R. Romano'], u'2015-02-27', u'Background. Previous quantitative studies about Bauruemys elegans (Su\xe1rez, 1969) shell variation, as well as the taphonomy interpretation of its type locality, have suggested that all specimens collected in this locality may have belonged to the same population. We rely on this hypothesis in a morphometric study of the skull. Also, we tried to assess the eating preference habits differentiation that might be explained as due to ontogenetic changes.Methods. We took 29 linear measurements from 21 skulls of B. elegans. First, a Principal Components Analysis (PCA) was performed using 27 measurements (excluding total length and width characters) in order to plot the overall individual dispersion in PCs to visualize patterns of scattering based on the form variance. Secondly, PCA was carried out using ratios of length and width of each original measurement to assess shape variation among individuals. Finally, original measurements were log-transformed to describe allometries along the ontogenetic development.Results. The first three PCs of the first analysis comprising 70.2% of the variance. PC1 was related to size variation and all others related to shape variation. MCZ4123 and MN7071-V have been plotted outside the 95% ellipse in PC1xPC2 axes. The first three PCs of the second analysis comprising 64% of the variance. When considering PC1xPC2 and PC2xPC3, all specimens have been plotted inside the 95% ellipse, which is in contrast to PC1xPC3 in which two individuals (MCT1753- R and MN6750-V) are outliers. In the third analysis, five measurements were positively allometric, 18 were negatively allometric and four represent truly negatively allometry. All bones of the posterior and the lateral emarginations, as well as the squamosal, lengthen due to size increasing, different from the jugal and the quadratojugal which decrease in width.Discussion. Some specimens show small differences in form (MCZ4123 and MN7071-V) and shape (MCT1753-R and MN6750-V). Form differences were already detected in a shell morphometry study, but interpreted as due to ontogeny, which might be the case of the present data. Moreover, all outlier specimens are crushed and/or distorted, thus the form/shape differences might be partially due to taphonomy. The allometric lengthen of parietal, quadrate, squamosal, maxilla, associated with the narrowing of jugal and quadratojugal may be related to changes in feeding habit between different stages of development. This change in shape might represent a progressive skull stretching and enlargement of posterior and lateral emargination during ontogeny, and consequently, the increment of the feeding-apparatus musculature. Smaller individuals may have fed of softer diet whereas bigger ones probably have had a harder diet, as seen in some living species of Podocnemis. We conclude that the skull variation is higher than expected and might be related to differences in feeding habits along the ontogeny of B. elegans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/859/', ['Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Deparatamento de Biologia Animal, Universidade Federal de Vi\xe7osa']]
[u'New data on the oldest turtles: revision and reconsideration of Proterochersidae', ['Tomasz Szczygielski'], u'2015-02-26', u'Background. The origin of turtles, their earliest evolution and the homologies of the elements building their shell are still enigmatic and remain an object of ongoing discussion and research. Although the oldest fully shelled turtle \u2013 Proterochersis robusta from the Lower Stubensandstein (Norian) of Germany \u2013 was described more than a century ago, until recently it was mostly ignored by researchers. This is surprising, not only because of its notable stratigraphic position, but also due to the critical significance of this taxon in two competing hypotheses of turtle interrelationships. The divergence time of two main branches of Testudines crown group depends on whether Proterochersis is a basal pleurodire or a stem turtle. Methods. A detailed study of the German material of Proterochersis and Murrhardtia was performed by the author and the available specimens were compared with still growing collection of proterochersid remains from the Norian location in Por\u0119ba (Poland). Results. Two controversial taxa from Germany, Proterochersis intermedia and Murrhardtia staeschei are proved to be the synonyms of P. robusta. Establishment of another two proterochersid taxa is proposed and new primitive postcranial characters are recognized, supporting the stem position of Proterochersidae on the turtle phylogenetic tree. Discussion. Two general hypotheses concerning the split time of Cryptodira and Pleurodira are functioning in the literature, and Proterochersis plays a crucial role in these considerations. According to traditional view, this taxon is the oldest side-necked turtle, based on the sutural connection between its pelvis and shell. Numerous recent analyses tended to allocate the Pleurodira much higher on the tree, resulting in stem position of Proterochersis, though such placement usually lacked a strong support. This was caused by an incompletness of Proterochersis material (only shells) and errors in interpretation of some characters. New data, gathered mostly from the Polish \u2013 much more complete and well preserved \u2013 specimens, supports the basal position of Proterochersidae and provides new insights in the ancestral structure of the turtle shell.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/858/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Evolutionary Paleobiology, Roman Koz\u0142owski Institute of Paleobiology, Polish Academy of Sciences']]
[u'The hexamer hypothesis explains apparent irregularities in the plating of early and extant crinoids', ['Marc HE de Lussanet'], u'2015-02-26', u'In 2011, I proposed a new hypothesis for the evolution and development of the five-rayed structure of echinoderms, the Hexamer Hypothesis (Lussanet, 2011). According to this hypothesis, the five-rayed structure develops by reduction from a six-rayed Bauplan. Crinoids (sea lilies) are unique as the only extant clade with stalked representatives, reaching back at least to the early Ordovician. Their extraordinary rich fossil record and the known embryology of recent forms make them ideal to test the Hexamer Hypothesis. It is concluded that the plating of the calyx and the stalk can be explained by the new hypothesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/857/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Psychology and Sports Science, University of M\xfcnster']]
[u'Global priorities for an effective information basis of biodiversity distributions', ['Carsten Meyer', 'Holger Kreft', 'Robert P Guralnick', 'Walter Jetz'], u'2015-02-26', u'Severe gaps and biases in digital accessible information (DAI) of species distributions hamper prospects of safeguarding biodiversity and ecosystem services and reliably addressing central questions in ecology and evolution. Accordingly, governments have agreed on improving and sharing biodiversity knowledge by 2020 (United Nations Convention on Biological Diversity\u2019s Aichi target 19). To achieve this target, gaps in DAI must be identified, and actions prioritized to address their root causes. We take terrestrial vertebrates, an iconic and comparatively well-studied group, as a model and present the first globally comprehensive assessment of patterns and drivers of gaps in DAI, based on an integration of 157 million validated point records with 21,170 expert-based distribution maps. We demonstrate that outside a few well-sampled regions, DAI provides a very limited and spatially highly biased inventory of actual biodiversity. Coarser spatial grains result in more complete inventories, but provide insufficient detail for conservation and resource management. Surprisingly, large emerging economies are particularly under-represented in global DAI, even more so than species-rich, developing countries in the tropics. Multi-model inference reveals that completeness is mainly limited by distance to researchers, locally available research funding, and political participation in data-sharing networks, rather than transportation infrastructure, or size and funding of Western data contributors as often assumed. Our study provides an empirical baseline to advance strategies of enhancing the global information basis of biodiversity. In particular, our results highlight the need for targeted data integration from non-Western data holders and intensified cooperation to more effectively address societal biodiversity information needs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/856/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biodiversity, Macroecology and Conservation Biogeography Group, Faculty of Forest Sciences, University of G\xf6ttingen', u'University of Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida at Gainesville', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University']]
[u'Tunable translational control using site-specific unnatural amino acid incorporation in Escherichia coli', ['Yusuke Kato'], u'2015-02-26', u'Translation of target gene transcripts in Escherichia coli harboring UAG amber stop codons can be switched on by the amber-codon-specific incorporation of an exogenously supplied unnatural amino acid, 3-iodo-L-tyrosine. Here, we report that this translational switch can control the translational efficiency at any intermediate magnitude by adjustment of the 3-iodo-L-tyrosine concentration in the medium, as a tunable translational controller. The translational efficiency of a target gene reached maximum levels with 10-5 M 3-iodo-L-tyrosine, and intermediate levels were observed with suboptimal concentrations (approximately spanning a 2-log10 concentration range, 10-7 to 10-5 M). Such intermediate-level expression was also confirmed in individual bacteria.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/855/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Genetically Modified Organism Research Center, National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences']]
[u'A revised global biogeography of turtles', ['Walter G. Joyce', 'Marton Rabi'], u'2015-02-25', u'Background. Over the course of the last decades, much effort has gone into unraveling the biogeographic history of turtles, but while much progress has been achieved in resolving post- Jurassic dispersal events, traditional phylogenetic hypotheses have yielded incongruous results in regards to the early history of the group. Methods. We re-evaluate the fossil record of turtles in context of recent phylogenetic analyses and fossil finds, including the extensive record of fragmentary but diagnostic remains. Given that near-coastal and marine turtles readily disperse across aquatic barriers, a broad set of neritic to pelagic groups were disregarded from consideration. Significant disagreement still exists among current phylogenetic hypotheses and we therefore place much effort into tracing the fossil record of unambiguously monophyletic groups. We finally employed molecular backbone constraints, given that the molecular phylogenies are more consistent with the fossil record than current, morphological phylogenies. Results. Among derived, aquatic turtles, we recognize four clades that can be traced back to discrete biogeographic centers: Paracryptodira in North America and Europe, Pan- Cryptodira in Asia, Pan-Pelomedusoides in northern Gondwanan landmasses and Pan- Chelidae in southern Gondwanan landmasses. This pattern is partially mirrored by three clades of primarily terrestrial, basal turtles: Solemydidae in North American and Europe, Sichuanchelyidae in Asia, and Meiolaniformes sensu stricto in southern Gondwanan landmasses. Although the exact interrelationships of these clades remain unclear, most can be traced back to the Middle Jurassic. Discussion. The conclusion that the two primary lineages of pleurodires and paracryptodires can be traced back to mutually exclusive land masses is not novel, but the realization that the early history of pan-cryptodires is restricted to Asia has not been realized previously, because traditional phylogenies implied an early, global presence of pan-cryptodires. The timing of the origin of the three primary clades of derived turtles (i.e., Pan-Pleurodira, Pan-Cryptodira, and Paracryptodira) correlates with the opening of the central Atlantic and the formation of the Turgai Strait in the Middle Jurassic, somewhat later than predicted by molecular calibration studies. The primary diversity of extant turtles therefore appears to have been driven by vicariance. A similar hypothesis could also be formulated for the three clades of basal turtles that survive at least into the Late Cretaceous, but given that their combined monophyly remains uncertain, it is unclear if their diversity was also driven by vicariance, or if they emulate a vicariance-like pattern. Although most groups remained within their primary geographic range throughout their evolutionary history, the dominant vicariance signal was thoroughly obfuscated by rich dispersal from littoral to marine turtles and crown cryptodires.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/853/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Departement f\xfcr Geowissenschaften, Universit\xe4t Freiburg', u'Fachbereich Geowissenschaften, Eberhard Karls Universit\xe4t T\xfcbingen']]
[u'CauseMap: Fast inference of causality from complex time series', ['M. Cyrus Maher', 'Ryan D. Hernandez'], u'2015-02-25', u'Background: Establishing health-related causal relationships is a central pursuit in biomedical research. Yet, the interdependent non-linearity of biological systems renders causal dynamics laborious and at times impractical to disentangle. This pursuit is further impeded by the dearth of time series that are sufficiently long to observe and understand recurrent patterns of flux. However, as data generation costs plummet and technologies like wearable devices democratize data collection, we anticipate a coming surge in the availability of biomedically-relevant time series data. Given the life-saving potential of these burgeoning resources, it is critical to invest in the development of open source software tools that are capable of drawing meaningful insight from vast amounts of time series data.\nResults: Here we present CauseMap, the first open source implementation of convergent cross mapping (CCM), a method for establishing causality from long time series data (> ~25 observations). Compared to existing time series methods, CCM has the advantage of being model-free and robust to unmeasured confounding that could otherwise induce spurious associations. CCM builds on Takens\u2019 Theorem, a well-established result from dynamical systems theory that requires only mild assumptions. This theorem allows us to reconstruct high dimensional system dynamics using a time series of only a single variable. These reconstructions can be thought of as shadows of the true causal system. If the reconstructed shadows can predict points from the opposing time series, we can infer that the corresponding variables are providing views of the same causal system, and so are causally related. Unlike traditional metrics, this test can establish the directionality of causation, even in the presence of feedback loops. Furthermore, since CCM can extract causal relationships from times series of, e.g. a single individual, it may be a valuable tool to personalized medicine. We implement CCM in Julia, a high-performance programming language designed for facile technical computing. Our software package, CauseMap, is platform-independent and freely available as an official Julia package.\nConclusions: CauseMap is an efficient implementation of a state-of-the-art algorithm for detecting causality from time series data. We believe this tool will be a valuable resource for biomedical research and personalized medicine.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/583/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Computational Science', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California', u'Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, Institute for Human Genetics, Institute for Quantitative Biosciences (QB3), University of California']]
[u'Comments on the juvenile Megaraptor specimen and systematic positions of megaraptoran theropods', ['Chan-gyu Yun'], u'2015-02-24', u'In this paper, I comment on Porfiri et al. (2014), "Juvenile specimen of Megaraptor (Dinosauria, Theropoda) sheds light about tyrannosauroid radiation". Though Porfiri et al. provided numerous coelurosaurian characters on the Megaraptor specimen, their referral of the taxon to tyrannosauroidea is based on some problematic characters. Also, the specimen bears a feature which does not correspond to tyrannosauroidea. All things considered, the suggested evidences supporting the position of Megaraptora within tyrannosauroidea are weak.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/851/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Yeonsu High School']]
[u'Evidence points out that "Nanotyrannus" is a juvenile Tyrannosaurus rex', ['Chan-gyu Yun'], u'2015-02-24', u'In this paper, I comment on Larson\'s 2013 paper "The case for Nanotyrannus". All the osteological differences proposed by Larson (2013) seem to be due to ontogeny and individual variation. Therefore, Larson\'s claim that "Nanotyrannus lancensis" is not a juvenile Tyrannosaurus rex is incorrect. And based on their striking anatomical similarities, it is more parsimonious to assume that "Nanotyrannus lancensis" is the junior synonym of Tyrannosaurus rex and represents a juvenile stage of the taxon.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/852/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Yeonsu High School']]
[u'Matrix compression methods', ['Crysttian A. Paixao', 'Flavio Codeco Coelho'], u'2015-02-23', u'The biggest cost of computing with large matrices in any modern computer is related to memory latency and bandwidth. The average latency of modern RAM reads is 150 times greater than a clock step of the processor (Alted, 2010). Throughput is a little better but still 25 times slower than the CPU can consume. The application of bitstring compression allows for larger matrices to be moved entirely to the cache memory of the computer, which has much better latency and bandwidth (average latency of L1 cache is 3 to 4 clock steps). This allows for massive performance gains as well as the ability to simulate much larger models efficiently. In this work, we propose a methodology to compress matrices in such a way that they retain their mathematical properties. Considerable compression of the data is also achieved in the process. Thus allowing for the computation of much larger linear problems within the same memory constraints when compared with the traditional representation of matrices.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/849/', ['Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Databases', 'Optimization Theory and Computation', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Programming Languages'], [u'Federal University of Santa Catarina', u'Applied Mathematics School, Getulio Vargas Foundation']]
[u'The first report of an archosaur from the Kayenta Formation of Washington County, Utah', ['Robert J Gay', 'Andrew RC Milner'], u'2015-02-20', u'The Kayenta Formation has yielded numerous tetrapod fossils, including, amphibians, theropods, prosauropods, ornithischians, crocodylomorphs, sphenodonts, tritylodonts, pterosaurs, turtles, and rare mammals. Despite the phylogenetic diversity of the preserved animals, virtually all of the vertebrate fossils have come from the Ward Terrace area of north-central Arizona, on the Navajo Nation Reservation. Here we describe the first remains of a tetrapod found in the Kayenta Formation of Washington County, Utah. Tetrapod body fossils from the Kayenta Formation in southwestern Utah are proving to be very rare however, in contrast to common vertebrate tracks. The specimen described herein is likely the remains of a sphenosuchian crocodylomorph.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/848/', ['Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Science Department, Mission Heights Preparatory High School', u'St. George Dinosaur Discovery Site at Johnson Farm']]
[u'Unusual ultrastructural findings in dendrites of pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex of rabies-infected mice', ['Orlando Torres-Fernandez', 'Jeison Monroy-Gomez', 'Ladys E Sarmiento'], u'2015-02-20', u'Previous studies using the Golgi technique have demonstrated alterations in the dendritic morphology of pyramidal neurons of the cerebral cortex of mice inoculated with the rabies virus. However, knowledge about the fine structure of dendrites in rabies infection is scarce. This work had the aim of studying the ultrastructure of dendrites in cortical pyramidal neurons of rabies-infected mice. Mice were inoculated intramuscularly with a street rabies virus of canine origin. The animals that showed an advanced stage of disease were fixed by perfusion with glutaraldehyde and paraformaldehyde. Brains were removed and cut on a vibratome to obtain coronal slices of 200 micrometers of thickness. Vibratome slices were subjected to the following treatment: postfixation, dehydration, embedding in epoxy resin and polymerization between glass slides. Ultrathin sections of oriented tissue fragments from the cerebral cortex were obtained and observed under electron microscope. The most significant ultrastructural findings were located within distal dendrites of cortical pyramidal neurons: loss of mitochondria, disorganization and loss of microtubules, formation of vacuoles interrupting the continuity of the cytoplasm and formation of myelin-like figures. These strange myelin figures, which apparently had not been reported in previous studies of rabies, were the most noticeable ultrastructural feature. They also differ from the best known myelin figures formed by concentric lamellae. The possible origin of these myelin figures as result of mitochondrial degeneration is discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/847/', ['Neuroscience', 'Virology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Pathology', 'Histology'], [u'Laboratorio de Microscop\xeda, Grupo de Morfolog\xeda Celular, Instituto Nacional de Salud (INS)']]
[u'The effects of reduced impact logging and logging intensity on stand damage, biomass loss and tree species richness in tropical forests: a meta-analysis', ['Philip A Martin', 'Adrian Newton', 'Marion Pfeifer', 'MinSheng Khoo', 'James Bullock'], u'2015-02-19', u'Background. At least a fifth of tropical forests have been logged in the recent past. This practice is an important source of timber but there are concerns about its long-sustainability and impacts on biodiversity and carbon storage. However, there is wide variation in the impacts of logging, making generalisation, and thus policy implementation, difficult. Recent syntheses of animal biodiversity have indicated that differences in logging intensity \u2013 the volume of wood removed per hectare \u2013 may help explain some of these differences. In addition there have been suggestions that reduced impact logging (RIL) may reduce some of the negative effects of logging.\nMethods. We aimed to test these hypotheses using meta-analyses to explore differences in the impacts of logging on (1) residual tree damage, (2) aboveground biomass and (3) tree species richness. To do this we used a mixture of unweighted mixed models and weighted meta-regression\nResults. Our results indicate that RIL may reduce residual tree damage when compared to conventional methods, but that at higher logging intensities this effect is negated. Changes in aboveground biomass were negatively related to logging intensity, but any effect of RIL was obscured by it being carried out at relatively low intensities. Tree richness appeared to initially increase at low intensities but was reduced at higher intensities.\nDiscussion. Our results give only weak support to the hypothesis that RIL reduces the negative impacts of logging on tree damage, and do not support suggestions that RIL reduces loss of biomass or species richness. However, we do not think this is because there is no difference between the impacts of RIL and conventional logging but rather that better evidence is needed to assess these differences. We suggest that studies that take account of plot-level differences in logging intensity are likely to provide a solution to this knowledge gap.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/846/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Centre for Ecology and Hydrology', u'Centre for Conservation Ecology and Environmental Science, Faculty of Science and Technology, Bournemouth University', u'Forest Ecology and Conservation Research Group, Imperial College London']]
[u'Study of interrelationship among water quality parameters in earthen pond and concrete tank', ['Olawale Ahmed Onada', 'Ayoola Olusegun Akinwole', 'Emmanuel Kolawale Ajani'], u'2015-02-19', u'One of the major limiting factors in aquaculture production is poor water quality which can negatively affect the yield from aquaculture venture. There is therefore the need to study the rate of interrelationship among key water quality parameters in relation to water quality management and productivity. The level of interaction among dissolved oxygen, ammonia, pH, and temperature in two culturing facilities (Earthen and Concrete ponds) was therefore investigated. Water samples were collected from concrete and earthen fish ponds in a commercial fish farm in Ibadan. The concrete tanks and earthen ponds used for the experiment have the same stocking rate; number of stocked fish; water source and feeding rate and frequency. Water samples were collected randomly from 4 different points in each of the rearing facilities with a sampling bottle in the morning (8.00-8.30am) and evening (5.00-5.30pm) immediately after feeding; this is done weekly for 6weeks. Also the mortality of fish in the studied facilities was recorded. Four different physico-chemical parameters (Temperature, pH, Dissolved oxygen and Ammonia) were analyzed and measured using HATCH analysis water testing kit model FF-1A immediately after water sample collection. Data collected were analysed using ANOVA and correlation and were test for significance at p=0.05. The result showed that, the mean values of pH was (8.15\xb10.17; 8.69\xb10.17); temperature (27.95\xb11.88; 30.21\xb11.880C) and dissolved oxygen (4.79\xb13.98; 11.38\xb13.98mg/l) were obtained in the morning and evening respectively. Mean dissolved oxygen was (7.04\xb13.98; 9.12\xb13.98mg/l); pH (7.9\xb10.17; 8.9\xb10.17mg/l); and ammonia (0.5\xb10.24; 2.09\xb10.24) in concrete tanks and earthen ponds respectively. The highest values of temperature (33.000C); dissolved oxygen (13.00mg/l) were obtained in the evening. The values obtained for dissolved oxygen and temperatures showed significant variations between the time of the day. Mean mortality recorded was (1.2\xb11.07); (2.6\xb11.07) in concrete and earthen ponds respectively. Mortality recorded shows positive correlation with temperature and ammonia with correlation coefficient (r=0.18) and (r=0.54) respectively, however, ammonia level had direct significant relationship with mortality. It is concluded that there exist interrelationship among the key water quality parameters examined, and there values varies with time of the day and between different culture facilities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/845/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science'], [u'Aquaculture and Fisheries Management, University of Ibadan']]
[u'Order and metric geometry compatible stochastic processing', ['Daniel J Greenhoe'], u'2015-02-19', u'A traditional random variable X is a function that maps from a stochastic process to the real line. Here, "real line" refers to the structure (R,<=,|x-y|), where R is the set of real numbers, <= is the standard linear order relation on R, and d(x,y)=|x-y| is the usual metric on R. The traditional expectation value E(X) of X is then often a poor choice of a statistic when the stochastic process that X maps from is a structure other than the real line or some substructure of the real line. If the stochastic process is a structure that is not linearly ordered (including structures totally unordered) and/or has a metric space geometry very different from that induced by the usual metric, then statistics such as E(X) are often of poor quality with regards to qualitative intuition and quantitative variance (expected error) measurements. For example, the traditional expected value of a fair die is E(X)=(1/6)(1+2+...+6)=3.5. But this result has no relationship with reality or with intuition because the result implies that we expect the value of [ooo] (die face value "3") or [oooo] (dice face value "4") more than we expect the outcome of say [o] or [oo]. The fact is, that for a fair die, we would expect any pair of values equally. The reason for this is that the values of the face of a fair die are merely symbols with no order, and with no metric geometry other than the discrete metric geometry. On a fair die, [oo] is not greater or less than [o]; rather [oo] and [o] are simply symbols without order. Moreover, [o] is not "closer" to [oo] than it is to [ooo]; rather, [o], [oo], and [ooo] are simply symbols without any inherit order or metric geometry. This paper proposes an alternative statistical system, based somewhat on graph theory, that takes into account the order structure and metric geometry of the underlying stochastic process.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/844/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'National Chiao Tung University']]
[u'To beat or not to beat a tick: Comparison of DNA extraction methods from ticks (Ixodes scapularis)', ['Alyssa D Ammazzalorso', 'Christine P Zolnik', 'Thomas J Daniels', 'Sergios-Orestis Kolokotronis'], u'2015-02-17', u'Background. Blacklegged ticks (Ixodes scapularis) are important disease vectors in the United States, known to transmit a variety of pathogens to humans, including bacteria, protozoa, and viruses. Their importance as a disease vector necessitates reliable and comparable methods for extracting microbial DNA from ticks. Furthermore, to explore the population genetics or genomics of this tick, appropriate DNA extraction techniques are needed for both the vector and its microbes. Although a few studies have investigated different methods of DNA isolation from ticks, they are limited in the number and types of DNA extraction and lack species-specific quantification of DNA yield. Methods. Here we determined the most efficient and consistent method of DNA extraction from two different developmental stages of I. scapularis \u2013 nymph and adult - that are the most important for disease transmission. We used various methods of physical disruption of the hard, chitinous exoskeleton, as well as commercial and non-commercial DNA isolation kits. To gauge the effectiveness of these methods we quantified the DNA yield and confirmed the DNA quality via PCR of both tick and microbial genetic material. Results. DNA extraction using the Thermo GeneJET Genomic DNA Purification kit resulted in the highest DNA yields and the strongest, most consistent PCR amplification. We also found that physical disruption of the tick exoskeleton was most effective using cross-sectional cutting compared to any type of bead-beating matrices used. Storing ticks at -80\xb0C resulted in considerably higher DNA yields than those from ticks stored in ethanol. Discussion. We contrasted a variety of readily available methods of DNA extraction from single individual blacklegged ticks and presented the results through a quantitative and qualitative assessment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/842/', ['Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Microbiology', 'Parasitology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Fordham University', u'Vector Ecology Laboratory, Louis Calder Center\u2013Biological Field Station, Fordham University']]
[u"Influence of the mother's preceding pregnancy on the gestation length of the current pregnancy. An immunological explanation?", ['Michel C Vernier', 'Michael Schulzer', 'Pierre Vernier'], u'2015-02-17', u'Introduction. A number of epidemiological studies on various diseases have drawn attention to relationships between fetal life events, as measured by health indicators and pathological events later in life. This accounts for the renewed interest in fetal health indicators. The objective of this retrospective study is to investigate the relationship between the sex of conceptuses of the mother\u2019s preceding pregnancies and the gestation length of the current pregnancy. Methods. A population of 7773 neonates were divided into cohorts, according to the sex of the current neonate and number and sex of the mother\u2019s preceding pregnancies. Average gestation lengths for each cohort were measured and compared between different configurations of preceding pregnancies. Results. There a positive association between the length of gestation of the neonate and its mother\u2019s preceding pregnancies of same sex as its own. Gestation length increases with the number of conceptuses of same sex among the preceding pregnancies. Likewise, there is a negative association between the length of gestation of the neonate and its mother\u2019s preceding pregnancies of opposite sex to its own. Gestation length decreases with the number of conceptuses of opposite sex among the preceding pregnancies. Discussion. The results of our study are compatible with the immunological hypothesis, based on the sex-linked concepto-gravidic antigenic dissimilarity, proposed to explain the association between preceding pregnancy and fetal development. The influence of the preceding pregnancy is significant enough to be taken into account for effective management of current pregnancies as well as for efficient clinical trial analysis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/841/', ['Epidemiology', "Women's Health"], [u'School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia', u'Department of Statistics, University of British Columbia', u'\ufeffDepartment of Medicine, University of British Columbia', u'Department of Renewable Resources, University of Alberta']]
[u'GPT: a web-server to map phylogenetic trees on a virtual globe', ['Pere Puigbo', 'Jacqueline M Major'], u'2015-02-17', u'GPT (Global Positioning Trees) is a web-server that maps phylogenetic trees on a virtual globe. The minimum requirements are a phylogenetic tree and geographical coordinates of leaves to generate a Keyhole Markup Language (KML) file that can be viewed on Google Earth. An advantage of GPT is the results may be pre-visualized directly on the web. This web-server also implements several tools to display geolocation and geotrack data. GPT has been designed to be an easy-to-use tool to track evolutionary processes and will be useful for phylogeographical and spatial epidemiological studies. It covers a wide-range of visualizations divided in three components increasingly complex: geolocation, geotrack and GPT. This web-server is freely available at http://ppuigbo.me/programs/GPT and only requires Internet access, a web browser, and an earth browser able to read KML files. Several examples and a tutorial are accessible from the web-server\u2019s home page.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/840/', ['Biogeography', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Epidemiology', 'Global Health'], [u'National Center for Biotechnology Information, National Library of Medicine, NIH', u'Office of Surveillance and Epidemiology, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, FDA']]
[u'A new unsupervised binning method for metagenomic dataset with automated estimation of number of species', ['Yun Liu', 'Tao Hou', 'Liu Fu'], u'2015-02-16', u'One necessary step of metagenome analysis is to assign sequences to classes according to their taxonomic origins. Unsupervised binning method is one of the two binning categories. However existing unsupervised binning methods yield to estimate the species number automatically and accurately. In this paper, a new unsupervised binning method based on an improved fuzzy c-means method (iFCM) is presented for metagenomic dataset. First, a range of the number of bins is obtained by the relationship among sequencing depth, number of reads and average read length. Secondly, iFCM algorithm is implemented several times with the initial number of bins in this range. Finally, the number of bins is determined by a clustering validity, modified partition coefficient. Experimental results show that this method is an effective unsupervised binning method for metagenomic dataset and could estimate the species number more accurately than MetaCluster3.0 and AbundanceBin.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/839/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'College of Communication Engeneering, Jilin University']]
[u'The fragile legacy of Amphicoelias fragillimus (Dinosauria: Sauropoda; Morrison Formation - Latest Jurassic)', ['Cary Woodruff', 'John R Foster'], u'2015-02-15', u'In the summer of 1878, American paleontologist Edward Drinker Cope published the discovery of a sauropod dinosaur that he named Amphicoelias fragillimus. What distinguishes A. fragillimus in the annals of paleontology is the immense magnitude of the skeletal material. The single incomplete dorsal vertebra as reported by Cope was a meter and a half in height, which when fully reconstructed, would make A. fragillimus the largest vertebrate ever. After this initial description Cope never mentioned A. fragillimus in any of his scientific works for the remainder of his life. More than four decades after its description, a scientific survey at the American Museum of Natural History dedicated to the sauropods collected by Cope failed to locate the remains or whereabouts of A. fragillimus. For nearly a century the remains have yet to resurface. The enormous size of the specimen has generally been accepted despite being well beyond the size of even the largest sauropods known from verifiable fossil material (e.g. Argentinosaurus). By deciphering the ontogenetic change of Diplodocoidea vertebrae, the science of gigantism, and Cope\u2019s own mannerisms, we conclude that the reported size of A. fragillimus is most likely an extreme over-estimation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/838/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Museum of the Rockies and Department of Earth Sciences, Montana State University', u'Museum of Moab']]
[u'Draft sequencing and assembly of the genome of the world\u2019s largest fish, the whale shark: Rhincodon typus Smith 1828', ['Timothy D Read', 'Robert A Petit III', 'Sandeep J Joseph', 'Md T Alam', 'Ryan Weil', 'Maida Ahmad', 'Ravila Bhimani', 'Jocelyn S Vuong', 'Chad P Haase', 'Harry Webb', 'Alistair D. M. Dove'], u'2015-02-14', u"The whale shark (Rhincodon typus) has by far the largest body size of any elasmobranch (shark or ray) species and is therefore also the largest extant species of the paraphyletic assemblage commonly referred to as \u201cfishes\u201d. As both a phenotypic extreme and a member of the group basal to the remaining gnathostomes, which includes all tetrapods and therefore also humans, its genome is of substantial comparative interest. Whale sharks are also listed as a \u201cvulnerable\u201d species on the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN)'s Red List of threatened species and are of growing popularity as both a target of ecotourism and as a charismatic conservation ambassador for the pelagic ecosystem. A genome map for this species would aid in defining effective conservation units and understanding global population structure. We characterised the nuclear genome of the whale shark using next generation sequencing (454, Illumina) and de novo assembly and annotation methods, based on material collected from the Georgia Aquarium. The data set consisted of 878,654,233 reads, which assembled into 11,347,816 contigs and 3,606,038 scaffolds. The estimated genome size was 3.44Gb. As expected, the proteome of the whale shark was most closely related to the only other complete genome of a cartilaginous fish, the Holocephali Elephant shark. The whale shark contained a novel Toll-like-receptor protein with sequence conservation to both the TLR4 and TLR13 proteins of mammals. The data are publicly available on a Galaxy bioinformatic server (http://whaleshark.georgiaaquarium.org). This represents the first shotgun elasmobranch genome and will aid studies of molecular systematics, biogeography, genetic differentiation, and conservation genetics in this and other shark species, as well as providing comparative data for studies of evolutionary biology and immunology across the jawed vertebrate lineages.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/837/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Marine Biology', 'Immunology'], [u'Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases & Department of Human Genetics, Emory University', u'SRA International Inc', u'Otogenetics Corp.', u'Georgia Aquarium']]
[u'Indirect effects of overfishing on Caribbean reefs: Sponges overgrow reef-building corals', ['Tse-Lynn Loh', 'Steven E McMurray', 'Timothy P Henkel', 'Jan Vicente', 'Joseph R Pawlik'], u'2015-02-14', u'Consumer-mediated indirect effects at the community-level are difficult to demonstrate empirically. Here, we show an explicit indirect effect of overfishing on competition between sponges and reef-building corals from surveys of 69 sites across the Caribbean. Removal of sponge-eating angelfishes and parrotfishes resulted in > 3 fold increase in overgrowth of corals by sponges, with coral-sponge contact increasing from 11.0% to 25.6%, and these sponges were mostly species palatable to sponge predators. Palatable species have faster rates of growth or reproduction than defended sponges, which instead make metabolically expensive chemical defenses. On average, overfished sites had lower macroalgal cover, contrary to prevailing assumptions about seaweed control by herbivorous fishes. Coral-sponge competition provides an additional and unambiguous justification for marine protected areas (MPAs) in the Caribbean, where the conceptual model of sponge community ecology and defense trade-offs is notable for the clarity of top-down control and indirect effects across a broad geographic region.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/836/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology and Marine Biology, University of North Carolina Wilmington', u'Department of Biology, Valdosta State University', u'Institute of Marine and Environmental Technology, University of Maryland Center for Environmental Science']]
[u'Melting barriers to faunal exchange across ocean basins', ['C. Seabird McKeon', 'Michele X. Weber', 'S. Elizabeth Alter', 'Nathaniel E. Seavy', 'Eric D. Crandall', 'Daniel J. Barshis', 'Ethan Fechter-Leggett', 'Kirsten L.L. Oleson'], u'2015-02-13', u'Accelerated loss of sea ice in the Arctic is opening routes connecting the Atlantic and Pacific oceans for longer periods each year. These changes will increase the ease and frequency with which marine birds and mammals are able to move between the Pacific and Atlantic ocean basins. Indeed, recent observations of birds and mammals suggest these movements are already occurring. Reconnection of the Pacific and Atlantic Ocean basins will present both challenges to marine ecosystem conservation and an unprecedented opportunity to examine the ecological and evolutionary consequences of faunal exchange in real time. To understand these changes and implement effective conservation of marine ecosystems, we need to further develop modeling efforts to predict the rate of dispersal and consequences of faunal exchange. These predictions can be tested by closely monitoring wildlife dispersal through the Arctic Ocean and using modern methods to explore the ecological and evolutionary consequences of these movements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/835/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Epidemiology'], [u'Smithsonian Marine Station, Smithsonian Institution', u'National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution', u'Department of Biology, York College and The Graduate Center, City University of New York (CUNY)', u'Point Blue Conservation Science', u'UC Santa Cruz Institute of Marine Sciences', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Old Dominion University', u'Independent', u'Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Management, University of Hawaii']]
[u'Effects of mapping algorithms on gene selection for RNA-Seq analysis: pulmonary response to acute neonatal hyperoxia', ['Chin-Yi Chu', 'Soumyaroop Bhattacharya', 'Zhongyang Zhou', 'Min Yee', 'Ashley Lopez', 'Valerie A Lunger', 'Bradley Buczynski', 'Michael Oreilly', 'Thomas Mariani'], u'2015-02-13', u'Background: A major goal of RNA-Seq data analysis is to reconstruct the full set of gene transcripts expressed in a biological sample in order to quantify their expression levels. The process typically involves multiple steps including mapping short sequence reads to a reference genome, and estimating expression levels based on these mappings. Multiple algorithms and approaches for each processing step exist, and the impact of different methods on estimation of gene expression is not entirely clear.\nMethods: We evaluated the impact of three common mapping algorithms on differential expression analysis in an RNA-Seq dataset describing the lung response to acute neonatal hyperoxia. RNA-Seq data generated using the Illumina platform were mapped and aligned using CASAVA, TopHat, and SHRiMP against the mouse genome. Significance Analysis of Microarrays and Cuffdiff were used to identify differentially expressed genes between hyperoxia-challenged and age matched control mice.\nResults: 1403 genes were detected as differentially expressed by least one mapping and gene selection method. A majority of genes (>65%) were identified by all three mapping methods, regardless of the gene selection approach. Expression patterns for 52 genes were examined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Importantly, we found different validation rates for genes selected by each method; 72% for CASAVA, 69% for TopHat and 63% for SHRiMP. Surprisingly, the validation rate for genes selected by all three mapping methods was no greater than the best single method.\nConclusion: The choice of mapping strategy impacts the reliability of gene selection for RNA-Seq data analysis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/833/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Pediatrics'], [u'Program in Pediatric Molecular and Personalized Medicine, University of Rochester', u'Division of Neonatology, University of Rochester']]
[u'Assessing the reproducibility of discriminant function analyses', ['Rose L Andrew', 'Arianne YK Albert', 'Sebastien Renaut', 'Diana J Rennison', 'Dan G Bock', 'Tim Vines'], u'2015-02-13', u'Data are the foundation of empirical research, yet all too often the datasets underlying published papers are unavailable, incorrect, or poorly curated. This is a serious issue, because future researchers are then unable to validate published results or reuse data to explore new ideas and hypotheses. While data files may be securely stored and accessible, they must also be accompanied by accurate labels and identifiers. To assess how often problems with metadata or data curation affect the reproducibility of published results, we attempted to reproduce Discriminant Function Analyses (DFAs) from the field of organismal biology. DFA is a commonly used statistical analysis that has changed little since its inception almost eight decades ago, and therefore provides an excellent case study to test reproducibility. Out of 100 papers we initially surveyed, fourteen were excluded because they did not present the common types of quantitative result from their DFA, used complex and unique data transformations, or gave insufficient details of their DFA. Of the remaining 86 datasets, there were 16 cases for which we were unable to confidently relate the dataset we received to the one used in the published analysis. The reasons ranged from incomprehensible or absent variable labels, the DFA being performed on an unspecified subset of the data, or incomplete data sets. We focused on reproducing three common summary statistics from DFAs: the percent variance explained, the percentage correctly assigned and the largest discriminant function coefficient. The reproducibility of the first two was high (20 of 25 and 43 of 59 datasets, respectively), whereas our success rate with the discriminant function coefficients was lower (15 of 36 datasets). When considering all three summary statistics, we were able to completely reproduce 46 (66%) of 70 datasets. While our results are encouraging, they highlight the fact that science still has some way to go before we have the carefully curated and reproducible research that the public expects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/832/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology', 'Science Policy'], [u'School of Environmental and Rural Science, University of New England', u'Biodiversity Research Centre, University of British Columbia', u'Women\u2019s Health Research Institute, BC Women\u2019s Hospital and Health Centre', u'Institut de recherche en biologie v\xe9g\xe9tale, D\xe9partement de sciences biologiques, Universit\xe9 de Montr\xe9al', u'Molecular Ecology Editorial Office']]
[u'The influence of weed management on the growth and yield of direct seeded rice (Oryza sativa L.)', ['Muhammad Saqib', 'Sajid Ali', 'Muhammad Ijaz', 'Muhammad Latif', 'Maqshoof Ahmad', 'Nadeem Akbar', 'Abdul Ghaffar'], u'2015-02-13', u'Weed management is a primary concern in direct seeded rice (DSR) cropping because weed growth becomes a major constraint on crop yield. A two year field study was set up to evaluate the effect of various weed control measures on crop growth, grain yield and grain quality of DSR. The dry seeded non flooded rice experiment involved five different weed control measures: hand weeding, hoeing, inter-row tine cultivation, inter-row spike hoeing and herbicide treatment (Nominee 100 SC). The extent of weed control (compared to a non-weeded control) ranged from 50-95%. The highest crop yield was obtained using hand weeding. Hand weeding, tine cultivation and herbicide treatment raised the number of fertile rice tillers formed per unit area and the thousand grain weight. Tine cultivation provided an effective and economical level of weed control in the DSR crop.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/831/', ['Agricultural Science'], [u'Department of Agronomy, The Islamia University of Bahawalpur', u'Institute of Agricultural Sciences, University of the Punjab', u'Department of Agronomy, Bahauddin Zakariya University, Bahadur Sub Campus', u'Department of Soil Science, UCA&ES, The Islamia University of Bahawalpur', u'Department of Agronomy, University of Agriculture', u'Directorate of Agronomy, Ayub Agricultural Research Institute']]
[u'Impact of copper toxicity on stone-head cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata) in hydroponics', ['Sajid Ali', 'Muhammad Shahbaz', 'Ahmad Naeem Shahzad', 'Ammara Fatima', 'Hafiz Azhar Ali Khan', 'Moazzam Anees', 'Muhammad Saleem Haider'], u'2015-02-13', u'Arable soils are frequently subjected to contamination with copper as the consequence of imbalanced fertilization with manure and organic fertilizers and/or extensive use of copper-containing fungicides. In the present study, the exposure of Stone-head cabbage (Brassica oleracea Var. capitata) to elevated Cu2+ levels resulted in leaf chlorosis and lesser biomass yield at \u2265 2 \xb5M. Root nitrate content was not statistically affected by Cu2+ levels, although it was substantially decreased at \u2265 5 \xb5M Cu2+ in the shoot. The decrease in nitrate contents can be related to lower nitrate uptake rates because of growth inhibition by Cu-toxicity. Shoot sulfate content increased strongly at \u2265 2 \xb5M Cu2+ indicating an increase in demand for sulfur under Cu stress. Furthermore, at \u2265 2 \xb5M concentration, concentration of water-soluble non-protein thiol increased markedly in the roots and to a smaller level in the shoot. When exposed to elevated concentrations of Cu2+ the improved sulfate and water-soluble non-protein thiols need further studies for the evaluation of their direct relation with the synthesis of metal-chelating compounds (i.e. phytochelatins).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/830/', ['Agricultural Science'], [u'Institute of Agricultural Sciences, University of the Punjab', u'Department of Biology, Colorado State University', u'Department of Agronomy, Bahauddin Zakariya University', u'Department of Environmental Science, Lahore College for Women University']]
[u'Catch, bycatch and discards of the Galapagos Marine Reserve small-scale handline fishery', ['Johanna S Zimmerhackel', 'Anna C Schuhbauer', 'Paolo Usseglio', 'Lena C Heel', 'Pelayo Salinas-de-Leon'], u'2015-02-13', u'Fisheries bycatch is one of the most significant marine conservation issues as valuable fish are wasted and protected species harmed with potential negative ecological and socio-economic consequences. Even though there are indications that the small-scale handline fishery of the Galapagos Marine Reserve has a low selectivity, information on its bycatch never has been published. We therefore assessed the bycatch of the Galapagos handline fishery by estimating the bycatch ratio, determining species compositions of landings and bycatch, and identifying fishers\u2019 reasons for discarding certain individuals using onboard monitoring and interview data. Moreover, we used interview surveys to reveal historical trends in the bycatch ratio. The estimated bycatch ratio of 0.40 confirmed a low selectivity of this fishery. Characterisation of the catch resulted in a total of 19 target species which were dominated by groupers, and 53 non-target species, with grunts and groupers being most prominent. Most individuals were not landed for economic motivations, either because species (77.4%) or sizes (17.7%) are not marketable and to a lesser extent for regulatory reasons (5.9%). However, sharks were after grunts with 69% the second most often mentioned bycatch taxa during interview surveys. We found that small sized individuals of some of the most exploited species suffer high bycatch mortality because they are used as bait. Moreover, over half of interviewees perceived a historical decrease in bycatch ratios that was explained by a diversification of the catch composition due to the reduction in abundance of the traditionally most important target species. As some target species show signs of overfishing and to date there are no specific regulations for the finfish fishery in place, we recommend the investigation of different gear settings such as the use of different hooks and bait species. Furthermore, we suggest the integration of faster growing species to the local market as well as spatio-temporal closures, and minimum and maximum catch sizes for overexploited species in order to improve the selectivity and sustainability of the Galapagos handline fishery.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/829/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Marine Sciences, Charles Darwin Research Station', u'Fisheries Center, Fisheries Economic Research Unit, The University of British Columbia', u'Fundaci\xf3n In-Nova', u'Fisheries Ecology Research Lab, University of Hawaii', u'Institute of Ecology and Environmental Chemistry, Leuphana University L\xfcneburg', u'Leibniz Center for Tropical Marine Ecology']]
[u'UTBiome: citizen science and campus community engagement', ['Juan Maestre', 'Harish Sangireddy', 'Paola Passalacqua', 'Kerry A. Kinney'], u'2015-02-13', u'The University of Texas main campus is located at the heart of the city of Austin. The university campus can be used as \u201cliving\u201d laboratory to engage students, faculty, and the public in general, in science. The UTBiome (aka \u201cMapping the UTBiome\u201d) project, is a cross-disciplinary educational, research and outreach effort to (1) engage the community in the collection and analysis of environmental samples from campus environment, and (2) to create an open access web-based mapping platform to disseminate the environmental and microbiological data obtained. In this project, both indoor and outdoor environments are being interrogated to answer diverse scientific questions. Over 250 citizens from the university community have been involved to date in the collection of biological samples and environment metadata associated with key water quality metrics including temperature, nitrate, phosphate, dissolved oxygen, alkalinity, pH, turbidity and fecal indicator bacteria. A data management system was designed and implemented for both, \u2018online\u2019 data input through student\u2019s mobile phones and to facilitate sample tracking. In order to fully engage the students and the UT community, we envisioned an interactive and innovative workflow, involving technology, automation, and social media. The interactive mapping platform we have created allow users within and outside the university to access and download the results and associated environmental data by simply clicking on the interactive map. The comprehensive UTBiome map created in ArcGIS can be found in this website http://crwr-utbiome.austin.utexas.edu/utb_webapp/utbiome.html (or just http://tinyurl.com/UTBiomeMap). The online platform design offers access to the environmental information, providing resources for students, faculty and the general public to learn more about the environment that surrounds us.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/828/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Civil, Architectural and Environmental Engineering, University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'An ecological implication of glandular trichome-sequestered artemisinin: as a sink of biotic/abiotic stress-triggered singlet oxygen', ['Jiang He', 'Qian Gao', 'Tao Liao', 'Qing-Ping Zeng'], u'2015-02-12', u'Artemisinin is accumulated in wormwood (Artemisia annua) with uncertain ecological implications. Here, we suggest that artemisinin is generated in response to biotic/abiotic stress, during which dihydroartemisinic acid, a direct artemisinin precursor, quenches singlet oxygen (1O2), one kind of reactive oxygen species. Evidence supporting artemisinin as a sink of 1O2 emerges from that volatile isoprenoids protect plants from biotic/abiotic stress; biotic/abiotic stress induces artemisinin biosynthesis; and stress signaling pathways are involved in the biosynthesis of volatile isoprenoids among plants as well as the biosynthesis of artemisinin in A. annua. In this review, we address the ecological implication of glandular trichome-sequestered artemisinin as a sink sink of biotic/abiotic stress-triggered 1O2 , and also summarize the cumulating data on the transcriptomic and metabolic profiling of stress-enhanced artemisinin production upon eliciting 1O2 omission from chloroplasts and initiating retrograde 1O2 signaling from chloroplasts to nuclei.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/827/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biotechnology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Tropical Medicine Institute, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine']]
[u'An empirical study of goto in C code', ['Meiyappan Nagappan', 'Romain Robbes', 'Yasutaka Kamei', 'Eric Tanter', 'Shane McIntosh', 'Audris Mockus', 'Ahmed E. Hassan'], u'2015-02-11', u'It is nearly 50 years since Dijkstra argued that goto obscures the flow of control in program execution and urged programmers to abandon the goto statement. While past research has shown that goto is still in use, little is known about whether goto is used in the unrestricted manner that Dijkstra feared, and if it is \u2018harmful\u2019 enough to be a part of a post-release bug. We, therefore, conduct a two part empirical study - (1) qualitatively analyze a statistically representative sample of 384 files from a population of almost 2 million C programming language files collected from over 11K Github repositories and find that developers use goto in C files for error handling (80.21 \xb1 5%) and cleaning up resources at the end of a procedure (40.36 \xb1 5%); and (2) quantitatively analyze the commit history from the release branches of six OSS projects and find that no goto statement was removed/modified in the post-release phase of four of the six projects. We conclude that developers limit themselves to using goto appropriately in most cases, and not in an unrestricted manner like Dijkstra feared, thus suggesting that goto does not appear to be harmful in practice.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/826/', ['Data Science', 'Social Computing', 'Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department of Software Engineering, Rochester Institute of Technology', u'PLEIAD Lab, Computer Science Dept (DCC), University of Chile', u'Principles of Software Languages Group (POSL), Kyushu University', u"Software Analysis and Intelligence Lab (SAIL), Queen's University", u'Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, University of Tennessee-Knoxville']]
[u'Achieving human and machine accessibility of cited data in scholarly publications', ['Joan Starr', 'Eleni Castro', 'Merce Crosas', 'Michel Dumontier', 'Robert R. Downs', 'Ruth Duerr', 'Laurel Haak', 'Melissa Haendel', 'Ivan Herman', 'Simon Hodson', 'Joe Hourcle', 'John Ernest Kratz', 'Jennifer Lin', 'Lars Holm Nielsen', 'Amy Nurnberger', 'Stefan Proll', 'Andreas Rauber', 'Simone Sacchi', 'Arthur P. Smith', 'Michael Taylor', 'Tim Clark'], u'2015-02-11', u'Reproducibility and reusability of research results is an important concern in scientific communication and science policy. A foundational element of reproducibility and reusability is the open and persistently available presentation of research data. However, many common approaches for primary data publication in use today do not achieve sufficient long-term robustness, openness, accessibility or uniformity. Nor do they permit comprehensive exploitation by modern Web technologies. This has led to several authoritative studies recommending uniform direct citation of data archived in persistent repositories. Data are to be considered as first-class scholarly objects, and treated similarly in many ways to cited and archived scientific and scholarly literature. Here we briefly review the most current and widely agreed set of principle-based recommendations for scholarly data citation, the Joint Declaration of Data Citation Principles (JDDCP). We then present a framework for operationalizing the JDDCP; and a set of initial recommendations on identifier schemes, identifier resolution behavior, required metadata elements, and best practices for realizing programmatic machine actionability of cited data. The main target audience for the common implementation guidelines in this article consists of publishers, scholarly organizations, and persistent data repositories, including technical staff members in these organizations. But ordinary researchers can also benefit from these recommendations. The guidance provided here is intended to help achieve widespread, uniform human and machine accessibility of deposited data, in support of significantly improved verification, validation, reproducibility and re-use of scholarly/scientific data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/697/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Data Science', 'Digital Libraries', 'World Wide Web and Web Science'], [u'California Digital Library, University of California, Office of the President', u'Institute of Quantitative Social Science, Harvard University', u'Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, School of Medicine, Stanford University', u'Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN), Columbia University', u'University of Colorado at Boulder, National Snow and Ice Data Center', u'ORCID, Inc.', u'Oregon Health and Science University', u'W3C/CWI', u'CODATA (ICSU Committee on Data for Science and Technology)', u'Solar Data Analysis Center, NASA Goddard Space Flight Center', u'Public Library of Science', u'European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN)', u'Columbia University Libraries/Information Services', u'SBA Research', u'Institute of Software Technology and Interactive Systems, Vienna University of Technology / TU Wien', u'Journal Information Systems, American Physical Society', u'Elsevier', u'Department of Neurology, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Development of an agent based model illustrating the usage of deferred acceptance algorithm in the admission process', ['Abhishek Bhatia', 'Chetan Sharma', 'Rinkaj Goyal'], u'2015-02-11', u'Agent based modelling framework successfully models real life problems that support simulation with diverse strategies and mechanisms devoid of the restrictions set by mathematical tractability. Union of game theory and agent based modelling has elucidated the dynamics of different social and economic scenarios. In this study, we present our efforts to develop an agent based model through embracing a customized version of the deferred acceptance algorithm. This study considers two widely adopted admission process scenarios i.e. partially and fully centralized as a case study, wherein a University acts as a nodal bureau and admits students to affiliated colleges. In this paper, an agent based model has been developed in the Netlogo simulation environment, which advocates fully centralized procedure and simulates deferred acceptance algorithm. The simulation results in a strategy-proof, optimum and stable allocation of available seats in the admission process.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/825/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Agents and Multi-Agent Systems', 'Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Autonomous Systems'], [u'USICT, GGS Indraprastha University']]
[u'New insights into the lifestyle of Allosaurus (Dinosauria: Theropoda) based on another specimen with multiple pathologies', ['Christian Foth', 'Serjoscha Evers', 'Ben Pabst', 'Octavio Mateus', 'Alexander Flisch', 'Mike Patthey', 'Oliver W. M. Rauhut'], u'2015-02-10', u'Adult large-bodied theropods are often found with numerous pathologies. A large, almost complete, probably adult Allosaurus specimen from the Howe Stephens Quarry, Morrison Formation (Late Kimmeridgian\u2013Early Tithonian), Wyoming, shows multiple pathologies. Pathologic bones include the left dentary, two cervical vertebrae, one cervical and several dorsal ribs, the left scapula, the left humerus, right ischium, and two left pedal phalanges. These pathologies can be classified as follows: the fifth cervical vertebra, the scapula, several ribs and the ischium are traumatic, and a callus on the shaft of the left pedal phalanx II-2 is traumatic-infectious. Traumatically fractured elements exposed to frequent movement (e.g. the scapula and the ribs) show a tendency to develop pseudarthroses instead of callus healing. The pathologies in the lower jaw and a reduced flexor tubercle of the left pedal phalanx II-2 are most likely traumatic or developmental in origin. The pathologies on the fourth cervical are most likely developmental in origin or idiopathic, that on the left humerus is infectious or idiopathic, whereas left pedal phalanx IV-1 is classified as idiopathic. With exception of the ischium, all traumatic / traumatic-infectious pathologic elements show unambiguous evidences of healing, indicating that the respective pathologies did not cause the death of this individual. Alignment of the scapula and rib pathologies from the left side suggests that all may have been caused by a single traumatic event. The ischial fracture may have been fatal. The occurrence of multiple traumatic pathologies again underlines that large-bodied theropods experienced frequent injuries during life, indicating an active predatory lifestyle, and their survival perhaps supports a gregarious behavior for Allosaurus. Signs of infections are scarce and locally restricted, indicating a successful prevention of the spread of pathogens, as it is the case in extant reptiles (including birds).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/824/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Paleontology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology', 'Pathology'], [u'SNBS, Bayerische Staatssammlung f\xfcr Pal\xe4ontologie und Geologie', u'Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences, Ludwig-Maximilians-Universit\xe4t', u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Oxford', u'Sauriermuseum Aathal', u'Faculdade de Ci\xeancias e Tecnologia, FCT, Universidade Nova de Lisboa', u'Museu da Lourinh\xe3', u'Center for X-ray Analytics, Empa. Swiss Federal Laboratories for Materials Science and Technology', u'Vetsuisse Fakulty, Universit\xe4t Z\xfcrich']]
[u'Relative availability of natural prey versus livestock predicts landscape suitability for cheetahs Acinonyx jubatus in Botswana', ['Hanlie EK Winterbach', 'Christiaan W Winterbach', 'Lorraine Boast', 'Rebecca Klein', 'Michael MJ Somers'], u'2015-02-10', u'Prey availability and human-carnivore conflict are strong determinants that govern the spatial distribution and abundance of large carnivore species and determine the suitability of areas for their conservation. For wide-ranging large carnivores such as cheetahs (Acinonyx jubatus) suitable conservation areas beyond protected area boundaries are crucial to effectively conserve them both inside and outside protected areas. Although cheetahs prefer preying on wild prey, they also cause conflict with people by predating on especially small livestock. We investigated whether the distribution of cheetahs\u2019 preferred prey and small livestock biomass can be used to explore the current potential suitability of agricultural areas in Botswana for the long-term persistence of its cheetah population. We found it gave a good point of departure for identifying priority areas for land management, the threat to connectivity between cheetah populations and areas where the reduction and mitigation of human-cheetah conflict is critical. Our analysis showed the existence of a wide prey base for cheetahs across large parts of Botswana\u2019s agricultural areas which provide additional large areas with high conservation potential. Twenty percent wild prey biomass proved to be possibly the critical point to distinguish between high and low predicted levels of human-cheetah conflict. We identified focal areas in the agricultural zones where restoring wild prey numbers in concurrence with effective human-cheetah conflict mitigation efforts are the most immediate conservation strategies needed to maintain Botswana\u2019s still large and contiguous cheetah population.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/823/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Tau Consultants (Pty) Ltd', u'Centre for Wildlife Management, University of Pretoria', u'Cheetah Conservation Botswana']]
[u'The European and Japanese outbreaks of H5N8 derive from a single source population that has most likely been dispersed along the long distance bird migratory flyways', ['Andrew Dalby', 'Munir Iqbal'], u'2015-02-09', u'The origin of recent parallel outbreaks of the high pathogenicity H5N8 avian flu virus in Europe and in Japan can be traced to a single source population, which has most likely been spread by migratory birds. By using Bayesian coalescence methods to analyze the DNA sequences of the virus to find the times for divergence and combining bird migration data we can show the most likely locations and migratory pathways involved in the origin of the current outbreak. This population was most likely located in the Siberian summer breeding grounds of long-range migratory birds. These breeding grounds provide a connection between different migratory flyways and explain the current outbreaks in remote locations. By combining genetic methods and epidemiological data we can rapidly identify the sources and the dispersion pathways for novel avian influenza outbreaks.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/822/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Virology'], [u'Faculty of Science and Technology, University of Westminster', u'Avian Viral Diseases Programme, Pribright Institute, Compton Laboratory']]
[u'Isolation and identification of Yersinia and Pseudomonas sp. from Australian milk and salad using 16s rDNA', ['Malik A Nawaz', 'Rewati Raman Bhattarai'], u'2015-02-07', u'A systematic research was conducted for the isolation and identification of undesirable microorganisms in food products using molecular approach. The result revealed the presence of Yersinia aleksiciae and Pseudomonas fluorescens strains in Australian pasteurized milk and mixed salad respectively. Y. aleksiciae grouped as lacking virulence marker and is regarded non-pathogenic. P. fluorescens has been identified as a marker of spoilage of ready-to-eat vegetable salads. This study confirms the rapidity and sensitivity of 16s rDNA analysis in identifying strains which contribute in early monitoring, accurate analysis and control of microbial risks in food products. The described methodology has special relevance in food quality control and safety.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/820/', ['Food Science and Technology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'School of Agriculture and Food Sciences, The University of Queensland', u'Centre for Nutrition and Food Sciences, Queensland Alliance for Agriculture and Food Innovation, The University of Queensland']]
[u'An genetic algorithm approach for profiling computational performance measures', ['Matheus Sant Ana Lima'], u'2015-02-06', u'This paper present a Genetic Algorithm(GA) approach for clustering data metric of computational performance measures collected from vmstat and sar tools. The proposed work models the genes, chromosomes, species and environment based on the dataset and presents an algorithm to analyze patterns and classify the records. The proposed method submits the performance information to an N-Dimensional Histogram in order to obtain the distribution of data that is used as input to the cluster initialization. The individual from each species undergoes successive crossover, mutation and selection operations to improve and evolve the initial population to a given environment state. The fitness-function is determined by the N-Dimensional Euclidean distance. The selection method is based on the Roulette-Wheel Selection, Elitist Selection and Truncation Selection. The results presented were obtained from seven test scenarios.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/819/', ['Adaptive and Self-Organizing Systems', 'Algorithms and Analysis of Algorithms', 'Artificial Intelligence', 'Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Databases'], [u'Department of Computer Science, Federal University of Sao Carlos']]
[u'Experimental reintroduction revealed novel reproductive variation in Crested Ibis  Nipponia nippon', ['Dongping Liu', 'Chao Wang', 'Baoping Qing', 'Jun Lu'], u'2015-02-06', u'The Crested Ibis  Nipponia Nippon  formerly occurred throughout East Asia, but since 1981 its unique population has been confined to a narrow area in Central China. During 2004-2005, 23 Crested Ibises were experimentally reintroduced to an isolated basin in Qinling Mountains, where they and their offspring exhibited variation in reproduction never observed in wild population. Crested Ibis has been considered to be a monogamous species, and breeding pair is solitary and territorial in breeding season. However, 3.4% of breeding females exhibited polyandry and 43.1% of nests were observed in colony in the reintroduced population during 2006-2014. The mating system flexibility is likely related to male-biased sex ratio in the small isolated reintroduced population, due to greater dispersal capacity by female. The colonial nesting is attributed to the availability of large nest trees and abundant food supply. First nest failure in reintroduced population occurred much earlier than that in wild, which resulted in significantly higher probability of renesting. The phenotypic plasticity in Crested Ibis may play important role in the restoration of this critical endangered species under a changing environment, and future reintroductions provide opportunity to further understand the degree and cost of adaptive phenotypic plasticity in Crested Ibis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/817/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Key Laboratory of Forest Protection of State Forestry Administration, Research Institute of Forest Ecology and Environment Protection, Chinese Academy of Forestry', u'National Bird Banding Center of China', u'Shaanxi Hanzhong Crested Ibis National Nature Reserve']]
[u'Prospecting Russula senecis: A delicacy among the tribes of West Bengal', ['Somanjana Khatua', 'Arun Kumar Dutta', 'Krishnendu Acharya'], u'2015-02-05', u'Russula senecis, a worldwide distributed mushroom, is exclusively popular among the tribal communities of West Bengal for food purposes. The present study focuses on its reliable taxonomic identification through macro-, micro-morphological features and DNA barcoding, confirmation of its systematic placement by phylogenetic analyses, myco-chemicals and functional activities. For the first time, complete Internal Transcribed Spacer region of R. senecis has been sequenced and its taxonomic position within subsection Foetentinae under series Ingratae of the subgen. Ingratula is confirmed through phylogenetic analysis. For exploration of its medicinal properties, dried basidiocarps were subjected for preparation of a heat stable phenol rich extract (RusePre) using water and ethanol as solvent system. The antioxidant activity was evaluated through hydroxyl radical scavenging (EC50 5 \xb5g/ml), chelating ability of ferrous ion (EC50 0.158 mg/ml), DPPH radical scavenging (EC50 1.34 mg/ml), reducing power (EC50 2.495 mg/ml) and total antioxidant activity methods (13.44 \xb5g ascorbic acid equivalent/mg of extract). RusePre exhibited antimicrobial potentiality against Listeria monocytogenes, Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Furthermore, different parameters were tested to investigate its chemical composition which revealed the presence of appreciable quantity of phenolic compounds along with carotenoids and ascorbic acid. HPLC-UV fingerprint indicated probable existence of at least 13 phenolics of which 10 were identified (pyrogallol> kaempferol> quercetin> chlorogenic acid> ferulic acid, cinnamic acid> vanillic acid> salicylic acid> p-coumaric acid> gallic acid). Result from the present work suggests that the fraction, RusePre, may open novel prospect as a functional ingredient in antioxidant supplements and in drugs to treat infectious disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/707/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Mycology', 'Taxonomy', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Molecular and Applied Mycology and Plant Pathology Laboratory, Department of Botany, University of Calcutta']]
[u'Geographic Feature Type Topic Model (GFTTM): grounding topics in the landscape', ['Benjamin Adams'], u'2015-02-05', u"Probabilistic topic models are a class of unsupervised machine learning models used for understanding the latent topics in a corpus of documents. A new method for combining geographic feature data with text from geo-referenced documents to create topic models that are grounded in the physical environment is proposed. The Geographic Feature Type Topic Model (GFTTM) models each document in a corpus as a mixture of feature type topics and abstract topics. Feature type topics are conditioned on additional observation data of the relative densities of geographic feature types co-located with the document's location referent, whereas abstract topics are trained independently of that information. The GFTTM is evaluated using geo-referenced Wikipedia articles and feature type data from volunteered geographic information sources. A technique for the measurement of semantic similarity of feature types and places based on the mixtures of topics associated with the types is also presented. The results of the evaluation demonstrate that GFTTM finds two distinct types of topics that can be used to disentangle how places are described in terms of its physical features and more abstract topics such as history and culture.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/816/', ['Data Mining and Machine Learning', 'Data Science', 'Natural Language and Speech', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Computer Science, Centre for eResearch, The University of Auckland']]
[u'Two perils of binary categorization: Why the study of concepts can\u2019t afford true/false testing', ['Greg Jensen', 'Drew Altschul'], u'2015-02-04', u'In this opinion piece, we outline two shortcomings in experimental design that limit the claims that can be made about concept learning in animals. On the one hand, most studies of concept learning train too few concepts in parallel to support general claims about their capacity of subsequent abstraction. On the other hand, even studies that train many categories of stimulus in parallel only test one or two stimuli at a time, allowing even a simplistic learning rule to succeed by making informed guesses. To demonstrate these shortcomings, we include simulations performed using an off-the-shelf image classifier. These simulations demonstrate that, when either training or testing are overly simplistic, a classification algorithm that is incapable of abstraction nevertheless yields levels of performance that have been described in the literature as proof of concept learning in animals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/688/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Neuroscience, Columbia University Medical Center', u'Department of Psychology, University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Cell death via remote heating of microparticles with potential applications in atherosclerosis and thrombosis therapy', ['Angelo Gaitas', 'Gwangseong Kim'], u'2015-02-04', u'We report a method to cause cell death by remotely heating microparticles by induction heating, this technique could be used to remove vascular deposits and thrombosis. In this preliminary work, we used micrometer size spherical (ferromagnetic) particles and (pure) iron particles to heat remotely macrophages using inductive heating. Iron particles achieved maximum temperatures of 51 \xb1 0.5 oC after 30 minutes of inductive heating, while spherical particles achieved a maximum temperature of 43.9 \xb1 0.2 oC (N=6). The therapeutic outcome was determined by monitoring cell re-growth for 2 days following inductive heating treatment. The initial density of cells in the first day prior to induction heating was 105,000 \xb1 20,820 cells/ml (N=3). 24 hours after induction heating this number was reduced to 6,666 \xb1 4,410 cells/ml for the spherical particles and 16,666 \xb1 9,280 cells/ml for the iron particles. The second day the cells grew to 26,667 \xb1 6,670 cells/ml and 30,000 \xb1 15,280 cells/ml respectively. Compared to cell cultures with iron and spherical particles that were not subjected to induction heating, we observed a 97% reduction in cell count for the spherical particles and a 91% reduction for the iron particles after the first 24 hours. After 48 hours we observed a 95% reduction in cell growth for both spherical and iron particles. Induction heating of microparticles was highly effective in reducing the macrophage population and preventing their growth.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/815/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Translational Medicine'], [u'Department of Electrical Engineering, Florida International University (FIU)', u'Electrical Engineering, Kytaro Inc']]
[u'Mapping of dextral : sinistral proportions in the chirally dimorphic land snail Amphidromus inversus', ['Menno Schilthuizen', 'Sylvia Looijestijn', 'Sek Chuan Chua', 'Jesus Aguirre Gutierrez', 'Ruth F. Castillo Cajas'], u'2015-02-03', u'One of the very few snail taxa that display genetic antisymmetry (that is, roughly equal mixes of genetically determined clockwise [D] and anticlockwise [S] coiled individuals within a single population) are the circa 35 species of the tropical tree snail subgenus Amphidromus. Previous work has shown that this may be due to a particular type of sexual selection, in which sperm transfer is improved in copulations between the two mirror-image morphs. However, it is not yet clear why so often significant deviations from 50:50 proportions are found. Modelling studies show that population structure will affect the degree by which the dimorphism is skewed towards the morph associated with the recessive allele. In this study, we mapped the proportions of sinistrals (PropS) in 56 demes in A. inversus on the Malaysian island of Kapas. We also mapped population density, predation rates, and several measures of vegetation structure. Our results show that PropS amounts on average to 0.65, but across the island it varies from 0.30 to 0.85. Density and overall predation are inversely correlated. A general linear model selection procedure results in the proportion of sinistrals to be positively correlated with density and predation on dextrals. We find no overwhelming evidence for a role for drift in explaining the deviations from equal S:D proportions, but we do argue that further study of crab-snail interactions may be warranted.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/470/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Character Evolution group, Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute Biology Leiden, Leiden University', u'Independent field biologist', u'Independent field biologist', u'Terrestrial Zoology, Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystems Dynamics, Computational Geo-Ecology, University of Amsterdam', u'Department of Animal Ecology and Tropical Biology, University of W\xfcrzburg']]
[u'Hypothesis for changing models: current pharmaceutical paradigms, trends and approaches in drug discovery', ['Domenico Fuoco'], u'2015-02-03', u'Despite the increasing availability of chemicals, the number of New Drug Approvals (NDA) from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) remains unchanged. The number of chemical structures available online via web-based open source applications will reach the symbolic 1 billion in the 10 next years. However, for no apparent reasons, the number of NDA accepted yearly has not changed in the past 25 years. One of the emerging paradigms of  Big Pharma  is that the more we know about molecular mechanisms and cell signaling pathways, the less we understand how to use this knowledge to make New Chemical Entities (NCE). Moreover, the annual number of pharmaceutical patents collected in the OCSE database has virtually not increased. Unexpectedly, the number of patents originating in the USA is decreasing significantly, while Asia is doing very well. The comparison between the number of NCEs and the American investment in Research and Development (R&D) in the last 35 years shows that to obtain a new drug blockbuster, the total investment is  quasi  4 USD billion. One of the peculiarities is the inverse relationship between the investment in R&D and the continued shortfall in productivity. A main reason for this decline is that the quality of scientific reasoning done by experienced chemists is too often replaced by  Big Data  . It is time to change the role of chemistry in  Big Pharma  and to re-position it as the central science to progress and to lead to much needed innovation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/813/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Public Health', 'Translational Medicine', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Drug Discovery Research Unit, McGill Nutrition and Performance Laboratory, McGill University']]
[u'Research groups: how big should they be?', ['Isabelle Cook', 'Sam Grange', 'Adam Eyre-Walker'], u'2015-01-31', u'We have investigated the relationship between research group size and productivity in the life sciences in the United Kingdom using data from 398 principle investigators (PIs). We show that the number of publications increases linearly with group size, but that the slope is modest relative to the intercept, and that the relationship explains little of the variance in productivity. A comparison of the slope and intercept suggests that PIs contribute on average 5-times more productivity than an average group member and using multiple regression we estimate that post-doctoral researchers are approximately 3\u2013times more productive than PhD students. We also find that the impact factor and the number of citations are both non-linearly related to group size such that there is a maximum. However, the relationships explain little of the variance and the curvatures are shallow so the impact factor and the number of citations do not greatly depend upon group size. The intercept is large relative to curvature suggesting that the PI is largely responsible for the impact factor and the number of citations from their group. Surprisingly we find this non-linear relationship for post-docs, but for PhD students we observe a slight but significant decrease in the impact factor. The results have important implications for the funding of research. Given a set number of Pis there is no evidence of diminishing returns in terms of the number of papers published and only a very weak cost to very large groups in terms of where those papers are published and the number of citations they receive. However, the results do suggest that it might be more productive to invest in new permanent members of faculty rather than additional post-docs and PhD students.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/812/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex']]
[u'Equilibrium switching and mathematical properties of nonlinear interaction networks with concurrent antagonism and self-stimulation', ['Jomar Rabajante', 'Cherryl O. Talaue'], u'2015-01-31', u'Concurrent decision-making model (CDM) of interaction networks with more than two antagonistic components represents various biological systems, such as gene interaction, species competition and mental cognition. The CDM model assumes sigmoid kinetics where every component stimulates itself but concurrently represses the others. Here we prove generic mathematical properties (e.g., location and stability of steady states) of n-dimensional CDM with either symmetric or asymmetric reciprocal antagonism between components. Significant modifications in parameter values serve as biological regulators for inducing steady state switching by driving a temporal state to escape an undesirable equilibrium. Increasing the maximal growth rate and decreasing the decay rate can expand the basin of attraction of a steady state that contains the desired dominant component. Perpetually adding an external stimulus could shut down multi-stability of the system which increases the robustness of the system against stochastic noise. We further show that asymmetric interaction forming a repressilator-type network generates oscillatory behavior.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/382/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Mathematical Sciences and Physics, University of the Philippines Los Banos', u'Institute of Mathematics, University of the Philippines Diliman']]
[u'Swabs to genomes: a comprehensive workflow', ['Madison I Dunitz', 'Jenna M Lang', 'Guillaume Jospin', 'Aaron E Darling', 'Jonathan A Eisen', 'David A Coil'], u'2015-01-29', u'The sequencing, assembly, and basic analysis of microbial genomes, once a painstaking and expensive undertaking, has become almost trivial for research labs with access to standard molecular biology and computational tools. However, there are a wide variety of options available for DNA library preparation and sequencing, and inexperience with bioinformatics can pose a significant barrier to entry for many who may be interested in microbial genomics. The objective of the present study was to design, test, troubleshoot, and publish a simple, comprehensive workflow from the collection of an environmental sample (a swab) to a published microbial genome; empowering even a lab or classroom with limited resources and bioinformatics experience to perform it.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/453/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Genome Center, UC Davis', u'ithree institute, University of Technology']]
[u'A new screw and technique for the treatment of ruptured multiaxial joint ligaments: a preliminary study on the scapholunate dissociation of the wrist', ['Fotios Nikolopoulos', 'Apostolos Poulilios', 'George Vidalis', 'Vassilios Kefalas'], u'2015-01-29', u'A wide range of techniques on ligament reconstruction have been proposed, summarized in three main categories: The direct suturing or indirect reconstruction of the ligament using adjuvant devices, the \u201cbiological ligament \u201d substitution with the use of autografts or allograft and the \u201cartificial ligament substitution\u201d, with polyester fibers. We propose a new orthopedic screw, the Flexy Screw (FS) and the FS technique for repairing unstable joints due to ligament damage. The tools used for the FS insertion and removal, is all included in the overall flexyscrew system (FSS).In this work we have particularly developed the FS technique for the scapholunate ligament rupture (SLR). The value 18.03N/mm (SD9.6) for the linear elastic mean stiffness for the SLIL, and 14.4N/mm for the FS, furthermore the FS max load 138N at 10mm, in comparison with the average elastic limit of 47N at 3mm for the SLIL are considered satisfactory. Furthermore, the FS technique is aiming to be applied in a wide spectrum of unstable joints needing \u201cligament substitution\u201d, because, as a mechanical orthopedic device can be adapted in order to simulate more closely the physiological mechanical properties of the ligaments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/810/', ['Orthopedics'], [u'Department of Orthopaedics, General Hospital of Piraeus \u201cTzanio\u201d', u'Department of Mechanics, School of Applied Mathematical & Physical Sciences, National Technical University of Athens']]
[u'The influence of belief conflict on stress and burnout syndrome in healthcare workers: using structural equation modeling in a cross-sectional study', ['Makoto Kyougoku', 'Mutsumi Teraoka'], u'2015-01-29', u'Purpose: Belief conflict has been hypothesized to contribute to increased stress and burnout syndrome among healthcare workers. However, tests on this hypothesis have been limited. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of belief conflict on stress and burnout syndrome in healthcare workers using structural equation modeling (SEM). Method: A sample of 488 participants (4.3% physicians, 32.4% nurses, 16.2% occupational therapists, 10.7% physical therapists, 36.4% other) responded to a questionnaire based on the Assessment of Belief Conflict in Relationship-14 (ABCR-14), Stress Response Scale-18 (SRS-18), and Japanese Burnout Scale (JBS). These data were examined using descriptive statistics and a causal sequence model. Results : The hypothesized model exhibited an excellent model fit (RMSEA = 0.041, CFI = 0.937, TLI = 0.933). The results suggested that belief conflict has positive causal effects on stress and burnout syndrome: standardized total effect = 0.676 (S.E. = 0.041, Est . /S.E. = 16.334, p-value = 0.000, 95% CI = 0.411; 0.646), standardized total indirect effect = 0.221 (S.E. = 0.031, Est . /S.E. = 7.066, p-value = 0.000, 95% CI = 0.115; 0.231), standardized direct effect = 0.455 (S.E. = 0.048, Est . /S.E. = 9.497, p-value = 0.000, 95% CI = 0.257; 0.455). Conclusion: This study indicated that healthcare workers suffer stress and burnout related to belief conflict. Therefore, assessment of belief conflict in healthcare workers, followed by appropriate intervention where indicated, would be beneficial in preventing stress and burnout.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/809/', ['Nursing', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Occupational Therapy, Graduate School of Health Science, Kibi international University', u'Oosugi Hospital']]
[u'Toward synthesizing our knowledge of morphology: using ontologies and machine reasoning to extract presence/absence evolutionary phenotypes across studies', ['T. Alexander Dececchi', 'James P Balhoff', 'Hilmar Lapp', 'Paula M Mabee'], u'2015-01-23', u'The reality of larger and larger molecular databases and the need to integrate data scalably have presented a major challenge for the use of phenotypic data. Morphology is currently primarily described in discrete publications, entrenched in non-computer readable text, and requires enormous investments of time and resources to integrate across large numbers of taxa and studies. Here we present a new methodology, using ontology-based reasoning systems working with the Phenoscape Knowledgebase (KB), to automatically integrate large amounts of evolutionary character state descriptions into a synthetic character matrix of neomorphic (presence/absence) data. Using the KB, which includes more than 55 studies of sarcopterygian taxa, we generated a synthetic supermatrix of 1051 variable characters scored for 639 taxa resulting in over 145,000 populated cells. Of these characters, over 76% were made variable through the addition of inferred presence/absence states derived by machine reasoning over the formal semantics of the source ontologies. Inferred data reduced the missing data in the variable character-subset from 98.5% to 78.2%. Machine reasoning also enables the isolation of conflicts in the data, i.e., cells where both presence and absence are indicated; reports regarding conflicting data provenance can be generated automatically. Further, reasoning enables quantification and new visualizations of the data, here for example, allowing identification of character space that has been undersampled across the fin to limb transition. The approach and methods demonstrated here to compute synthetic presence/absence supermatrices are applicable to any taxonomic and phenotypic slice across the tree of life, providing the data are semantically annotated. Because such data can also be linked to model organism genetics through computational scoring of phenotypic similarity, they open a rich set of future research questions into phenotype to genome relationships.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/807/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Biology, University of South Dakota', u'National Evolutionary Synthesis Center', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina']]
[u'Language workbench user interfaces for data analysis', ['Victoria M Benson', 'Fabien Campagne'], u'2015-01-23', u'Biological data analysis is frequently performed with command line software. While this practice provides considerable flexibility for computationally savy individuals, such as investigators trained in bioinformatics, this also creates a barrier to the widespread use of data analysis software by investigators trained as biologists and/or clinicians. Workflow systems such as Galaxy and Taverna have been developed to try and provide generic user interfaces that can wrap command line analysis software. These solutions are useful for problems that can be solved with workflows, and that do not require specialized user interfaces. However, some types of analyses can benefit from custom user interfaces. For instance, developing biomarker models from high-throughput data is a type of analysis that can be expressed more succinctly with specialized user interfaces. Here, we show how Language Workbench (LW) technology can be used to model the biomarker development and validation process. We developed a language that models the concepts of Dataset, Endpoint, Feature Selection Method and Classifier. These high-level language concepts map directly to abstractions that analysts who develop biomarker models are familiar with. We found that user interfaces developed in the Meta-Programming System (MPS) LW provide convenient means to configure a biomarker development project, to train models and view the validation statistics. We discuss several advantages of developing user interfaces for data analysis with a LW, including increased interface consistency, portability and extension by language composition. The language developed during this experiment is distributed as an MPS plugin (available at http://campagnelab.org/software/bdval-for-mps/', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/511/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute for Computational Biomedicine, Weill Cornell Medical College']]
[u'The shiftability of protein coding genes: the genetic code was optimized for frameshift tolerating', ['Xiaolong Wang', 'Xuxiang Wang', 'Gang Chen', 'Jianye Zhang', 'Yongqiang Liu', 'Chao Yang'], u'2015-01-23', u'The genetic code defines the relationship between a protein and its coding DNA sequence. It was presumed that most frameshifts would yield non-functional, truncated or cytotoxic products. In this study, we report that in E. coli, a frameshift \u03b2-lactamase (bla) gene is still functional if all of the inner stop codons were readthrough or replaced by a sense codon. By analyzing a large dataset including all available protein coding genes in major model organisms, it is demonstrated that in any species, and in any protein-coding genes, the three translational products from the three different reading frames, are always similar to each other and with constant ~50% similarities and ~100% coverages, and the similarities is predefined by the genetic code rather than the sequences themselves. It is likely that a coding gene can be translated into three isoforms from each of the three reading frames, we propose a new gene expression paradigm, \u201cone transcript, three translations\u201d, which is an amendment to the traditional \u201cone gene, one/multiple peptides\u201d hypotheses. Finally, we concluded that the genetic code was optimized for frameshift tolerating in the early evolution, which endows every protein coding gene a character of shiftability, an inherent and everlasting ability to tolerate frameshift mutations, and serves as an innate mechanism for cells to deal with the frameshift problem.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/806/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology, Ocean University of China']]
[u'Reconstructing baselines for Caribbean predatory reef fishes', ['Abel Valdivia', 'Courtney Cox', 'John Bruno'], u'2015-01-21', u'The natural, pre-human, abundance of most large predators is unknown due to the lack of historical data and the poor understanding of the natural factors that control their populations. We assessed the relationship between the biomass of predatory reef fishes and several anthropogenic and environmental variables to (1) predict among site variability in predator abundance in response to both human impacts and natural factors, and (2) estimate historical baselines of fish predator biomass in the absence of humans. We hypothesized that predatory fish abundance declines with human influence but is also strongly associated with natural environmental variability. We assessed the biomass structure of reef fishes at 39 sites over three years across the greater Caribbean. Using generalized linear mixed effect models, we examined the relationships between the biomass of predatory reef fishes and a comprehensive set of 29 anthropogenic, physical, spatial, biotic, and management-related covariates. We used the best explanatory models to predict the biomass of fish predators in the absence of humans. Predatory reef fish biomass was higher in marine reserves but strongly negatively related to human impacts, especially coastal development. Over 50% of the variability in predator biomass, however, was also explained by non-human factors including reef complexity, ocean productivity, and prey abundance. Comparing site-specific predicted values to field observations suggests predatory reef fish biomass has declined by 80-95% in most sites, even within most marine reserves. Bottom-up forces are critical (yet often overlooked) drivers of reef fish communities across gradients of human exploitation. This suggests that we could underestimate historical biomass at sites that provide ideal conditions for predators or greatly overestimate that of seemingly predator-depleted sites that may have never supported large predator populations due to suboptimal environmental conditions. We highlight areas that are natural \u201chot spots\u201d of predator biomass that can be targeted for strategic protection and restoration.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/805/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Biology Department, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Disease threat does not predict attractiveness preference in a United Kingdom dataset: a replication attempt and commentary on White et al., Psych Sci 2013', ['Gustav Nilsonne', 'Adam Renberg', 'Sandra Tamm', 'Mats Lekander'], u'2015-01-20', u'Background: A study by White et al. found that population disease burden predicted preference for attractive politicians in U.S. congressional elections. Aim: We aimed to replicate this finding using data from the United Kingdom. Method: We regressed rated sexiness of elected members of parliament on health metrics from their constituencies: life expectancy, infant mortality, and self-rated health. Results: None of the health metrics predicted rated sexiness of members of parliament. Conclusion: Further investigation is needed to verify whether the proposed relationship is important and whether it is moderated by other factors such as cross-cultural differences.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/804/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Stress Research Institute, Stockholm University', u'Department of Clinical Neuroscience, Karolinska Institute', u'Valtech AB']]
[u'Morphology of the jaw, suspensorial, and opercle musculature of Beloniformes and related species (Teleostei: Acanthopterygii), with a special reference to the m. adductor mandibulae complex', ['Ingmar Werneburg'], u'2015-01-20', u'The taxon Beloniformes represents a heterogeneous group of teleost fishes that show an extraordinary diversity of jaw morphology. I present new anatomical descriptions of the jaw musculature in six selected beloniforms and four closely related species. A reduction of the external jaw adductor (A1) and a changed morphology of the intramandibular musculature were found in many Beloniformes. This might be correlated with the progressively reduced mobility of the upper and lower jaw bones. The needlefishes and sauries, which are characterised by extremely elongated and stiffened jaws, show several derived characters, which in combination enable the capture of fish at high velocity. The ricefishes are characterised by several derived and many plesiomorphic characters that make broad scale comparisons difficult. Soft tissue characters are highly diverse among hemiramphids and flying fishes reflecting the uncertainty about their phylogenetic position and interrelationship. The morphological findings presented herein may help to interpret future phylogenetic analyses using cranial musculature in Beloniformes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/691/', ['Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Pal\xe4ontologisches Institut und Museum, Universit\xe4t Z\xfcrich', u'Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde, Leibniz-Institut f\xfcr Evolutions- & Biodiversit\xe4tsforschung an der Humboldt-Universit\xe4t zu Berlin']]
[u'Improvement of enzymatic saccharification in Arabidopsis thaliana by ectopic expression of the rice SUB1A-1 transcription factor', ['Lizeth Nunez-Lopez', 'Andres Aguirre-Cruz', 'Blanca Estela Barrera-Figueroa', 'Julian Mario Pena-Castro'], u'2015-01-20', u'Saccharification of polysaccharides releases monosaccharides that can be used by ethanol-producing microorganisms in biofuel production. To improve plant biomass as a raw material for saccharification, factors controlling the accumulation and structure of carbohydrates must be identified. Rice SUB1A-1 is a transcription factor that represses the turnover of starch and postpones energy-consuming growth processes under submergence stress. Arabidopsis was employed to test if heterologous expression of SUB1A-1 or SUB1C-1 (a related gene) can be used to improve saccharification. Cellulolytic and amylolytic enzymatic treatments confirmed that SUB1A-1 transgenics had better saccharification yield than wild-type (Col-0), mainly from accumulated starch. This high saccharification yield was developmentally controlled since juvenile transgenic plants yielded 200-300% more glucose than Col-0. We measured photosynthetic parameters, starch granule microstructure, and transcript abundance of genes involved in starch degradation (SEX4, GWD1), juvenile transition (SPL3-5) and meristematic identity (FUL, SOC1) but found no differences to Col-0, indicating that starch accumulation may be controlled by down-regulation of CONSTANS and FLOWERING LOCUS T by SUB1A-1 as previously reported. SUB1A-1 transgenics also offered less resistance to deformation than wild-type concomitant to up-regulation of AtEXP2 expansin and BGL2 glucan-1,3,-beta-glucosidase. We conclude that heterologous SUB1A-1 expression can improve saccharification yield and softness, two traits needed in bioethanol production.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/802/', ['Biotechnology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Laboratorio de Biotecnolog\xeda Vegetal, Instituto de Biotecnolog\xeda, Universidad del Papaloapan', u'Divisi\xf3n de Estudios de Posgrado, Universidad del Papaloapan', u'Taller de Alimentos, Instituto de Biotecnolog\xeda, Universidad del Papaloapan']]
[u'Amyloid domains in the cell nucleus controlled by nucleoskeletal protein lamin B1 reveal a new pathway of mercury neurotoxicity', ['Florian Arnhold', 'Karl-Heinz Guehrs', 'Anna von Mikecz'], u'2015-01-19', u'Mercury (Hg) is a bioaccumulating trace metal that globally circulates the atmosphere and waters in its elemental, inorganic and organic chemical forms. While Hg represents a notorious neurotoxicant, the underlying cellular pathways are insufficiently understood. We identify amyloid protein aggregation in the cell nucleus as a novel pathway of Hg-bio-interactions. By mass spectrometry of purified protein aggregates a subset of spliceosomal components and nucleoskeletal protein lamin B1 were detected as constituent parts of an Hg-induced nuclear aggregome network. The aggregome network was located by confocal imaging of amyloid-specific antibodies and dyes to amyloid cores within splicing-speckles that additionally recruit components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Hg significantly enhances global proteasomal activity in the nucleus suggesting that formation of amyloid speckles plays a role in maintenance of protein homeostasis. RNAi knock down showed that lamin B1 for its part regulates amyloid speckle formation and thus likewise participates in nuclear protein homeostasis. As the Hg-induced cascade of interactions between the nucleoskeleton and protein homeostasis reduces neuronal signalling, amyloid fibrillation in the cell nucleus is introduced as a feature of Hg-neurotoxicity that opens new avenues of future research. Similar to protein aggregation events in the cytoplasm that are controlled by the cytoskeleton, amyloid fibrillation of nuclear proteins may be driven by the nucleoskeleton.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/801/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'IUF - Leibniz Research Institute for Environmental Medicine at Heinrich-Heine-University Duesseldorf', u'CF Proteomics, FLI - Leibniz-Institute for Age Research, Fritz-Lipman-Institute e.V.']]
[u'A ten-year demographic history of a population of howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata) living in a fragmented landscape in Mexico', ['Jurgi Cristobal Azkarate', 'Jacob Charles Dunn', 'Cristina Domingo Balcells', 'Joaquim Vea Baro'], u'2015-01-19', u'Long-term field studies of primates are critical for our understanding of life history and the processes driving changes in demography. Here, we present the first long-term demographic data for the northernmost population of the mantled howler monkey (Alouatta palliata). We followed 10 groups of howler monkeys living in a highly fragmented landscape between 2000 and 2011. Forest fragmentation did not seem to play a major role in the dynamics of our population, as the population size remained relatively stable over the 10-year study period, and birth rates and inter-birth intervals were comparable to those of howler monkeys at other sites. Moreover, dispersal events were commonplace, particularly secondary dispersal (individuals emigrating from groups that they had previously immigrated into), which supports the suggestion that this may be an important component of the reproductive strategy of the mantled howler monkey. Finally, we found a marked effect of seasonality on the population dynamics of our study population. In particular, the period of lowest temperatures and resource scarcity between November and March was associated with higher mortality and reproductive inhibition, while the period of resource abundance between April and May was associated with the majority of conceptions and weaning of offspring. This, in turn, could be influencing dispersal patterns in our study area, as male howler monkeys seem to time some of their immigrations into new groups to coincide with the start of the period of higher fertility, while females preferentially joined new groups several months before the onset of this period.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/800/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Division of Biological Anthropology, University of Cambridge', u'Instituto de Biolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico', u'Centre Especial de Recerca en Primats, Facultat de Psicologia, Universitat de Barcelona']]
[u'New methods for computational drug design', ['Jimmy Charnley Kromann'], u'2015-01-16', u'This thesis describes the work that has been carried out in connection with my Masters at the University of Copenhagen. This work has led to new dispersion and hydrogen bond corrections to the PM6 method, PM6-D3H+, and its implementation in the GAMESS program. The method combines the DFT-D3 dispersion correction by Grimme et al. with a modified version of the H+ hydrogen bond correction by Korth. This work also included the implementation of the new HF-3c method in GAMESS and its interface with the fragmentation method FMO. Overall, the interaction energy of PM6-D3H+ is very similar to PM6-DH2 and PM6-DH+, with RMSD and MAD values within 0.02 kcal/mol of one another. HF-3c also shows interaction energies within the same order of accuracy as the PM6 based methods. The main difference is that the geometry optimizations of 88 complexes result in 82, 6, 0, and 0 geometries with 0, 1, 2, and 3 or more imaginary frequencies using PM6-D3H+ implemented in GAMESS, while the corresponding numbers for PM6-DH+ implemented in MOPAC are 54, 17, 15, and 2. PM6-D3H+ and FMO2-HF- 3c in GAMESS was used to optimize two small proteins which resulted in a much more reliable structure compared to the reference structures, than PM6-DH+ in MOPAC, most likely due to the different optimization algorithms associated with the programs. The PM6-D3H+ method as implemented in GAMESS offers an attractive alternative to PM6-DH+ in MOPAC in cases where the LBFGS optimizer must be used and a vibrational analysis is needed, e.g., when computing vibrational free energies. While the GAMESS implementation is up to 10 times slower for geometry optimizations of proteins in bulk solvent compared to MOPAC, it is sufficiently fast to make geometry optimizations of small proteins practically feasible.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/799/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Anthropogenic stress alters community concordance at the river-riparian interface', ['Jonathan D Tonkin', 'Stefan Stoll', 'Sonja C Jahnig', 'Peter Haase'], u'2015-01-16', u'Organisms often respond in similar ways to environmental or spatial gradients, particularly at large spatial scales, but patterns at finer scales and across ecotones are less certain. It is important to understand these relationships at multiple spatial scales, as managers often need suitable surrogate taxa for conservation and monitoring purposes. We explored whether community concordance at the river-riparian interface was decoupled by increasing anthropogenic stress (a gradient of local land-use intensity) at 15 sites over three years within the LTER site, Rhine-Main Observatory, a low mountain river system in central Germany. We assessed concordance between four organism groups: riparian spiders and carabid beetles, benthic macroinvertebrates, and combined aquatic macrophytes and riparian plants. This represented three different linkages: (1) predator-prey, (2) direct competition, and (3) habitat associations. While there were no correlations in richness patterns, multivariate community structure was highly concordant between all groups. Anthropogenic stress strongly reduced links between riparian spiders and carabid beetles, likely resulting from their shared resource requirements. However, increasing concordance occurred between plants and other groups. We posit that patterns may be resulting from two processes: (1) linkages between directly competing species decouple with increasing anthropogenic stress, and (2) stronger coupling may occur between habitat providers and dependent species when overall habitat complexity is reduced. These results highlight the complex manner in which anthropogenic stress can influence ecosystems and the importance of considering community structure when exploring biodiversity patterns in basic and applied ecological research, particularly at small scales and for surrogate taxa development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/798/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of River Ecology and Conservation, Senckenberg Research Institute', u'Department of Ecosystem Research, Leibniz-Institute of Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries (IGB)']]
[u'Does evolution of plumage patterns and of migratory behaviour in Apodini swifts (Aves: Apodiformes) follow distributional range shifts?', ['Dieter Thomas Tietze', 'Michael Wink', 'Martin Packert'], u'2015-01-16', u'The Apodini swifts in the Old World serve as an example for a recent radiation on an intercontinental scale on the one hand. On the other hand they provide a model for the interplay of trait and distributional range evolution with speciation, extinction and trait transition rates on a low taxonomic level (23 extant taxa). Swifts are well adapted to a life mostly in the air and to long-distance movements. Their overall colouration is dull, but lighter feather patches of chin and rump stand out as visual signals. Only few Apodini taxa breed outside the tropics; they are the only species in the study group that migrate long distances to wintering grounds in the tropics and subtropics. We reconstructed a dated molecular phylogeny including all species, numerous outgroups and fossil constraints. Several methods were used for historical biogeography and two models for the study of trait evolution. We finally correlated trait expression with geographic status. The differentiation of the Apodini took place in less than 9 Ma. Their ancestral range most likely comprised large parts of the Old-World tropics, although the majority of extant taxa breed in the Afrotropic and the closest relatives occur in the Indomalayan. The expression of all three investigated traits increased speciation rates and the traits were more likely lost than gained. Chin patches are found in almost all species, so that no association with phylogeny or range could be found. Rump patches showed a phylogenetic signal and were correlated with Indomalayan distribution. Apodini swifts performed long-distance migration whenever they expanded their range to temperate latitudes during warm periods, repeatedly in the Pleistocene.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/797/', ['Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University', u'Institute of Ecology, Evolution and Diversity, Goethe University', u'Museum f\xfcr Tierkunde, Senckenberg Natural History Collections']]
[u'Non-coding RNAs and the deregulation of ubiquitin-proteasome network in neurodegeneration: a familia tria?', ['Stephan S Persengiev'], u'2015-01-16', u'Small non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs) represent a diverse group of gene regulatory factors that can posttranscriptionally regulate gene expression in response to various stimuli during brain development and differentiation. Subsets of ncRNAs and miRNAs in particular, are very specifically expressed within the central nervous system and participate in the regulation of important brain functions. miRNAs are essential for the postmitotic survival of neurons, and therefore might play a role in neuroprotection. A number of miRNAs have been reported to be dysregulated in several neurodegenerative diseases implying that they can contribute to pathogenesis. Furthermore, in light of the neuroprotective properties of some miRNAs, these small RNA species may themselves be the focus for drug development. Here, we review recent studies that imply a link between miRNA role in the regulation of ubiquitine-proteasome pathways and neurodegeneration and discuss how increased knowledge of miRNAs might serve the diagnosis and treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/796/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Cognitive Disorders'], [u'BioconSP']]
[u'Honey bee success predicted by landscape composition in Ohio, USA', ['Douglas B Sponsler', 'Reed M Johnson'], u'2015-01-16', u'Foraging honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) routinely travel as far as several kilometers from their hive in the process of collecting nectar and pollen from floral patches within the surrounding landscape. Since the availability of floral resources at the landscape scale is a function of landscape composition, apiculturists have long recognized that landscape composition is a critical determinant of honey bee colony success. Nevertheless, we are aware of no published studies that present quantitative data relating colony success metrics to local landscape composition. We employed a beekeeper survey in conjunction with GIS-based landscape analysis to model colony success as a function of landscape composition in the State of Ohio, USA, a region characterized by intensive cropland, urban development, deciduous forest, and grassland. We found that colony food accumulation and wax production were positively related to cropland and negatively related to forest and grassland, a pattern that may be driven by the abundance of dandelion and clovers in agricultural areas compared to forest or mature grassland. Colony food accumulation was also negatively correlated with the ratio of urban:crop area in sites dominated by urban and agricultural land cover, which does not support the popular opinion that the urban environment is more favorable to honey bees than cropland.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/795/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Entomology, The Ohio State University']]
[u'Investigation of the interplay between SKP2, CDT1 and Geminin in cancer cells', ['Andrea Ballabeni', 'Raffaella Zamponi'], u'2015-01-16', u'Geminin has a dual role in the regulation of DNA replication: it inhibits replication factor CDT1 activity during the G2 phase of the cell cycle and promotes its accumulation at the G2/M transition. In this way Geminin prevents DNA re-replication during G2 phase and ensures that DNA replication is efficiently executed in the next S phase. CDT1 was shown to associate with SKP2, the substrate recognition factor of the SCF ubiquitin ligase complex. We investigated the interplay between these three proteins in cancer cell lines. We show that Geminin, CDT1 and SKP2 could possibly form a complex and propose the putative regions of CDT1 and Geminin involved in the binding. We also show that, despite the physical interaction, SKP2 depletion does not substantially affect CDT1 and Geminin protein levels. Moreover, we show that while Geminin and CDT1 levels fluctuate, SKP2 levels, differently than in normal cells, are almost steady during the cell cycle of the tested cancer cells.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/794/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School', u'Department of Experimental Oncology, European Institute of Oncology']]
[u'Chemically modified plastic tube for high volume removal and collection of circulating tumor cells', ['Angelo Gaitas', 'Gwangseong Kim'], u'2015-01-16', u"In this preliminary effort, we use a commercially available and chemically modified tube to selectively capture circulating tumor cells (CTCs) from the blood stream by immobilizing human anti-EpCAM antibodies on the tube's interior surface. We describe the steps required to modify a tube into a cancer cell capturing device. Using these simple modifications, at this proof-of-concept stage of development, we were able to capture about 85% of cancer cells from suspension and 44% of cancer cells from spiked whole blood, the capture percentage being dependent on the tube's length and the number of cancer cells present. Previous work by other researchers has focused on extracting small blood volumes and capturing CTCs with complicated micro-fluidic devices for diagnostic purposes. In addition, prior results of other researchers point to a possible reduction in metastasis achieved by removing CTCs from the bloodstream. We believe that with the utilization of appropriate tube lengths and procedures, we can ensure capture and removal of nearly the entire CTC population in whole blood. Following whole blood flow through the tube, the tube can be trypsinized to release the captured live CTCs for further analysis and testing.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/793/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Drugs and Devices'], [u'Department of Electrical Engineering, Florida International University', u'Kytaro Inc.']]
[u'Extracting reproducible simulation studies from model repositories using the CombineArchive Toolkit', ['Martin Scharm', 'Dagmar Waltemath'], u'2015-01-15', u'The COMBINE archive is a digital container format for files related to a virtual experiment in computational biology. It eases the management of numerous files related to a simulation study, fosters collaboration, and ultimately enables the exchange of reproducible research results. The CombineArchive Toolkit is a software for creating, exploring, modifying, and sharing COMBINE archives. Open model repositories such as BioModels Database are a valuable resource of models and associated simulation descriptions. However, so far no tool exists to export COMBINE archives for a given simulation study from such databases. Here we demonstrate how the CombineArchiveToolkit can be used to extract reproducible simulation studies from model repositories. We use the example of Masymos, a graph database with a sophisticated link concept to connect model-related files on the storage layer.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/792/', ['Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock']]
[u'Ebola virus disease outbreak in Nigeria: transmission dynamics and rapid control', ['Christian L Althaus', 'Nicola Low', 'Emmanuel O. Musa', 'Faisal Shuaib', 'Sandro Gsteiger'], u'2015-01-15', u'International air travel has already spread Ebola virus disease (EVD) to major cities as part of the unprecedented epidemic that started in Guinea in December 2013. An infected airline passenger arrived in Nigeria on July 20, 2014 and caused an outbreak in Lagos and then Port Harcourt. After a total of 20 reported cases, including 8 deaths, Nigeria was declared EVD free on October 20, 2014. We quantified the impact of early control measures in preventing further spread of EVD in Nigeria and calculated the risk that a single undetected case will cause a new outbreak. We fitted an EVD transmission model to data from the outbreak in Nigeria and estimated the individual reproduction number of the index case at 9.0 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 5.2-15.6). We also found that the net reproduction number fell below unity 15 days (95% CI: 11-21 days) after the arrival of the index case. Hence, our study illustrates the time window for successful containment of EVD outbreaks caused by infected air travelers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/569/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (ISPM), University of Bern', u'World Health Organization - Nigeria Office', u'Federal Ministry of Health', u'Office of the Minister of State for Health, Federal Ministry of Health']]
[u'Is there a field proxy for brain size in great-tailed grackles (Quiscalus mexicanus)?', ['Corina J Logan', 'Christin Palmstrom'], u'2015-01-13', u'There is an increasing need to validate and collect data approximating brain size on individuals in the field to understand what evolutionary factors drive brain size variation within and across species. We investigated whether we could accurately estimate endocranial volume (a proxy for brain size) as measured by computerized tomography (CT) scans, using external skull measurements and/or by filling skulls with beads and pouring them out into a graduated cylinder for male and female great-tailed grackles. We found that while females had much stronger correlations than males, estimations of endocranial volume from external skull measurements or beads did not correlate with CT volumes at a standard that surpassed our strict criteria. We found no accuracy in the ability of external skull measures to predict CT volumes because prediction intervals from data points overlapped extensively. We conclude that we are unable to detect individual differences in endocranial volume using external skull measurements. These results emphasize the importance of validating and explicitly quantifying the predictive accuracy of brain size proxies for each species, and each sex, under consideration.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/791/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Neuroscience', 'Zoology'], [u'SAGE Center for the Study of the Mind, University of California Santa Barbara', u'College of Creative Studies, University of California Santa Barbara']]
[u'Epidemiological evaluation of rubella virus infection among pregnant women in Ibadan, Nigeria', ['Olubusuyi M Adewumi', 'Adebowale O. Olayinka', 'Adebiyi B. Olusola', 'Temitope O.C. Faleye', 'Folorunso W. Sule', 'Olubukola Adesina'], u'2015-01-13', u'Abstract: Rubella is a vaccine-preventable, mild rash-inducing viral disease with complications that include a spectrum of birth defects in the developing foetus, especially if the infection is acquired in the early months of pregnancy. Consequently, the primary objective of global rubella control programmes is prevention of congenital rubella infection and associated birth defects often collectively referred to as congenital rubella syndrome.Despite the availability of safe and effective vaccines, and elimination of rubella virus in many developed countries substantial commitment to rubella control has not been demonstrated in the developing countries. This study appraises immunity to rubella, and consequently makes appropriate recommendations aimed at facilitating effective control. A cross-sectional sero-surveillance study was carried out among 272 consenting ante-natal clinic attendees in south-western, Nigeria. Prevalence rates of 91.54% and 1.84% were recorded for anti-rubella virus (anti-RV) IgG and IgM respectively. Also, 90.7% and 92.3% of the women aged \u226430 years and \u203a30 years respectively had detectable anti-RV IgG. No significant association (p=0.94) was recorded between anti-RV IgG detection and age of the women. Previous exposure and susceptibility of significant fraction of the population to rubella infection were confirmed. Considerable political commitment and promotion of free rubella immunization specifically for women with childbearing potential were recommended.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/790/', ['Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Pediatrics', 'Public Health', "Women's Health"], [u'Department of Virology, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan', u'Department of Microbiology, Ekiti State University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Osun State University', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, College of Medicine, University College Hospital, University of Ibadan']]
[u'Development of soil microbial communities for promoting sustainability in agriculture and a global carbon fix', ['David Johnson', 'Joe Ellington', 'Wesley Eaton'], u'2015-01-13', u'The goals of this research were to explore alternative agriculture management practices in both greenhouse and field trials that do not require the use of synthetic and/or inorganic nutrient amendments but instead would emulate mechanisms operating in natural ecosystems, between plant and Soil Microbial Communities (SMC), for plant nutrient acquisition and growth.\nGreenhouse plant-growth trials, implementing a progression of soil conditions with increasing soil carbon (C) (C= 0.14% to 5.3%) and associated SMC population with increasing Fungal to Bacterial ratios (F:B) ( from 0.04 to 3.68), promoted a) increased C partitioning into plant shoot and plant fruit partitions (m=4.41, r2=0.99), b) significant quantities of plant photosynthate, 49%-97% of Total System New C (CTSN), partitioned towards increasing soil C c) four times reduction in soil C respiration (CR) as F:B ratios increased, starting with 44% of initial treatment soil C content respired in bacterial-dominant soils (low F:B), to 11% of soil C content respired in higher fertility fungal-dominant soils (Power Regression, r2=0.90; p=0.003).\nPlant growth trials in fields managed for increased soil C content and enhanced SMC population and structure (increased F:B) demonstrated: a) dry aboveground biomass production rates (g m-2) of ~1,980 g in soils initiating SMC enhancement (soil C=0.87, F:B= 0.80) with observed potentials of 8,450 g in advanced soils (soil C=7.6%, F:B=4.3) b) a 25-times increase in active soil fungal biomass and a ~7.5 times increase in F:B over a 19 month application period to enhance SMC and c) reduced soil C respiration rates, from 1.25 g C m-2 day-1 in low fertility soils (soil C= 0.6%, F:B= 0.25) with only a doubling of respiration rates to 2.5 g C m-2 day-1 in a high-fertility soil with an enhanced SMC (F:B= 4.3) and >7 times more soil C content (soil C= 7.6%).\nEnhancing SMC population and F:B structure in a 4.5 year agricultural field study promoted annual average capture and storage of 10.27 metric tons soil C ha-1 year -1 while increasing soil macro-, meso- and micro-nutrient availability offering a robust, cost-effective carbon sequestration mechanism within a more productive and long-term sustainable agriculture management approach.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/789/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Soil Science'], [u'Institute for Sustainable Agricultural Research & Institute for Energy and Environment, WERC, New Mexico State University', u'Retired Entomology Plant Pathology and Weed Science Department, New Mexico State University', u'Manufacturing Technology and Engineering Center (MTEC), New Mexico State University']]
[u'Genetic approaches to understanding the population-level impact of wind energy development on migratory bats: a case study of the eastern red bat (Lasiurus borealis)', ['Maarten Vonhof', 'Amy L. Russell'], u'2015-01-13', u'Documented fatalities of bats at wind turbines have raised serious concerns about the future impacts of increased wind power development on populations of migratory bat species. However, for most bat species we have no knowledge of the size of populations and their demographic trends, the degree of structuring into discrete subpopulations, and whether different subpopulations use spatially segregated migratory routes. Here, we utilize genetic data from eastern red bats (Lasiurus borealis), one of the species most highly affected by wind power development in North America, to (1) evaluate patterns of population structure across the landscape, (2) estimate effective population size (Ne), and (3) assess signals of growth or decline in population size. Using a large dataset of both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA variation, we demonstrate that this species forms a single, panmictic population across their range with no evidence for the historical use of divergent migratory pathways by any portion of the population. Further, using coalescent estimates we estimate that the effective size of this population is in the hundreds of thousands to millions of individuals. Our results showing high population connectivity and gene flow among populations of eastern red bats provides valuable context for understanding levels and patterns of mortality, and indicate that monitoring and management of eastern red bats must integrate information across the range of this species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/788/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Western Michigan University', u'Environmental and Sustainability Studies Program, Western Michigan University', u'Department of Biology, Grand Valley State University']]
[u'Causal relationship between occupational dysfunction and depression in healthcare workers: A study using structural equation model', ['Mutsumi Teraoka', 'Makoto Kyougoku'], u'2015-01-13', u'Purpose: The purpose of this study is to identify the impacts of occupational dysfunction on depression in healthcare workers (nurses, physical therapists, and occupational therapists) in hospitals.\nMethods: Healthcare workers responded to a questionnaire based on the Classification and Assessment of Occupational Dysfunction (CAOD) and Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depression Scale (CES-D). CAOD and CES-D were examined using the following methods: descriptive statistics, exploratory factor analysis (EFA), confirmatory factor analysis (CFA), and a causal sequence model.\nResults: CFA of CAOD had 16 items and 5 factors (CFI=0.958, TLI=0.946, RMSEA\uff1d0.092). CFA of CES-D had 20 items and 4 factors (CFI=0.950, TLI=0.942, RMSEA=0.060). The results suggest that occupational dysfunction had positive causal effects on depression (CFI=0.926, TLI=0.920, RMSEA=0.059).\nConclusion: This model refers to the relationship between depression and occupational dysfunction. Therefore, assessment and intervention on classification of occupational dysfunction for healthcare workers would be beneficial in the prevention of depression.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/787/', ['Epidemiology', 'Nursing', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Occupational Therapy, School of Health Sciences, Kibi International University']]
[u'Predictors of exercise participation are different depending on ambulatory status among older people with multiple sclerosis', ['Michelle Ploughman', 'Chelsea Harris', 'Elizabeth M Wallack', 'Olivia Drodge', 'Serge Beaulieu', 'Stephen Hogan'], u'2015-01-11', u'Background: Exercise at moderate intensity may confer neuroprotective benefits in multiple sclerosis (MS), however it has been reported that people with MS (PwMS) exercise less than national guideline recommendations. We aimed to determine predictors of moderate to vigorous exercise among a sample of older Canadians with MS who were divided into ambulatory (less disabled) and non-ambulatory (more disabled) groups. Methods: We analysed data collected as part of a national survey of health, lifestyle and aging with MS. Participants (n=743) were Canadians over 55 years of age with MS for 20 or more years. We identified \u2018a priori\u2019 variables (demographic, personal, socioeconomic, physical health, exercise history and health care support) that may predict exercise at moderate to vigorous intensity (>6.75 metabolic equivalent hours/week). Predictive variables were entered into stepwise logistic regression, adding and deleting correlated variables until best fit was achieved for each of the two groups (ambulatory and non-ambulatory). Results: Seventy-seven percent (77%) of participants in the ambulatory group (n=351) and 35% of the non-ambulatory group (n=392) were classified as exercisers. In the ambulatory group, exercise predictors included degree of disability (OR 1.95, 95%CI 1.18-3.25), depressive symptoms (OR 0.51, 95%CI 0.29-0.89) and perseverance (OR 1.8, 95%CI 1.04-3.10). In the non-ambulatory group, exercise predictors included degree of disability (OR 5.3, 95%CI 3.22-8.71) and perseverance (OR 2.1, 95%CI 1.27-3.54). It was also notable that the factors, age, gender, years with MS, co-morbid conditions, social support, health care support and financial status were not predictive of exercise. Conclusions: This is the first examination of exercise and exercise predictors among older, more disabled PwMS. Disability and perseverance are major predictors of exercise participation (at moderate to vigorous levels) in both ambulatory and non-ambulatory groups. Presence of depressive symptoms was only predictive in the ambulatory group. Our results suggest that more exercise options must be developed for people with greater disability. Perseverance and depression are both characteristics that are modifiable and are potential targets for exercise adherence interventions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/786/', ['Epidemiology', 'Kinesiology', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Recovery and Performance Laboratory, Rehabilitation Research Unit, Faculty of Medicine, Memorial University', u'Eastern Health Authority']]
[u'Prevalence of yeast fungal infections in intensive care unit in Poland', ['Wojciech Francuzik', 'Aleksandra J. Sklodowska', 'Kinga Adamska', 'Zygmunt Adamski', 'Barbara Tamowicz', 'Adam Mikstacki'], u'2015-01-11', u'', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/785/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Dermatology', 'Epidemiology'], [u'Department of Dermatology, Heliodor Swiecicki Clinical Hospital at the Karol Marcinkowski Medical University', u'Department of Anesthesiology and Intensive Therapy, Pozna\u0144 Regional Hospital']]
[u'The selenium content of SEPP1 versus selenium requirements in vertebrates', ['Sam Penglase', 'Kristin Hamre', 'Stale Ellingsen'], u'2015-01-11', u'Selenoprotein P (SEPP1) distributes selenium (Se) throughout the body via the circulatory system. The Se content of SEPP1 varies from 7 to 18 Se atoms depending on the species, but the reason for this variation remains unclear. Herein we provide evidence that vertebrate SEPP1 Sec content correlates positively with Se requirements (R2=0.88). As the Se content of full length SEPP1 is genetically determined, this presents a unique case where a nutrient requirement can be predicted based on genomic sequence information.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/784/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Nutrition'], [u'Fish nutrition - Embryo and Larvae Group, National Institute of Nutrition and Seafood Research (NIFES)', u'Department of Biology, University of Bergen']]
[u'Do New Zealand men with prostate cancer benefit from a Mediterranean-style diet?', ['Sharon Erdrich', 'Karen S Bishop', 'Nishi Karunasinghe', 'Dug Yeo Han', 'Lynnette R Ferguson'], u'2015-01-11', u'Carcinoma of the prostate is the most commonly diagnosed malignancy and the third leading cause of mortality in New Zealand men, making it a significant health issue in this country. Global distribution patterns suggest that diet and lifestyle factors may be linked to the development and progression of this cancer. Twenty men with diagnosed prostate cancer adhered to a Mediterranean diet, with specific adaptations, for three months. Dietary data, prostate-specific antigen, C-reactive protein and DNA damage were evaluated at baseline after three months of following the diet. A significant reduction in DNA damage compared to baseline was apparent, with particular benefit noted for overall adherence to the diet (p = 0.013), increased intake of folate (p = 0.023), vitamin C (p = 0.007), legumes (p = 0.004) and green tea (p = 0.002). Higher intakes of red meat and dairy products were inversely associated with DNA damage (p = 0.003 and p = 0.008 respectively). This small study demonstrated that a high-antioxidant diet, modelled on Mediterranean traditions, may be of benefit for men with prostate cancer. Protection against DNA damage appears to be associated with the diet implemented, ostensibly due to reduction in reactive oxidant species. These findings warrant further exploration in a longer trial, with a larger cohort.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/783/', ['Nutrition', 'Oncology', 'Urology'], [u'Discipline of Nutrition, FM&HS, University of Auckland', u'Auckland Cancer Society Research Centre, FM & HS, University of Auckland', u'Nutrigenomics New Zealand, University of Auckland']]
[u'Effects of anesthetics pentobarbital sodium and chloral hydrate on urine proteome', ['Mindi Zhao', 'Youhe Gao'], u'2015-01-11', u'Background. Urine can be a better source than blood for biomarker discovery since it accumulates many changes. The urine proteome is susceptible to many factors including anesthesia. Pentobarbital sodium and chloral hydrate are commonly used anesthetics in animal experiments.\nMethods. This study demonstrated effects of these two anesthetics on the rat urine proteome using liquid chromatography\u2013tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS).\nResults. With anesthesia, the urinary protein-to-creatinine ratio of all rats increased two fold. The relative abundance of 22 and 23 urinary proteins were changed with pentobarbital sodium or chloral hydrate anesthesia, respectively, as determined by label-free quantification. Among these changed proteins, fifteen had been considered as candidate biomarkers such as uromodulin, sixteen had been considered stable in healthy human urine, which are more likely to be considered as potential biomarkers when changed, such as transferrin.\nDiscussion. The pattern of changed urinary proteins provides clues to the discovery of urinary proteins regulatory mechanisms. When determining candidate biomarker, anesthetic-related effects can be excluded in future biomarker discovery studies. Since anesthetics take effects via nervous system, this study is the first to provide clues that protein handling function of kidney may possibly be regulated by nervous system.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/782/', ['Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Pathophysiology, National Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences/Peking Union Medical College', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Gene Engineering and Biotechnology Beijing Key Laboratory, Beijing Normal University']]
[u'Sexual selection studies: a NESCent catalyst meeting', ['Joan Roughgarden', 'Elizabeth Adkins-Regan', 'Erol Akcay', 'Jeremy Chase Crawford', 'Raghavendra Gadagkar', 'Simon C. Griffith', 'Camilla A. Hinde', 'Thierry Hoquet', "Cailin  O'Connor", 'Zofia M. Prokop', 'Richard O. Prum', 'Sharoni Shafir', 'Samuel S. Snow', 'Daniel Taylor', 'Jeremy Van Cleve', 'Michael Weisberg'], u'2015-01-10', u'A catalyst meeting on sexual selection studies was held in July 2013 at the facilities of the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent) in Durham, NC. This article by a subcommittee of the participants foregrounds some of the topics discussed at the meeting. Topics mentioned here include the relevance of heritability estimates to assessing the presence of sexual selection, whether sexual selection is distinct from natural selection, and the utility of distinguishing sexual selection from fecundity selection. A possible definition of sexual selection is offered based on a distinction between sexual selection as a frequency-dependent process and fecundity selection as a density-dependent process. Another topic highlighted is a deep disagreement among participants in the reality of good-genes, sexy-sons, and run-away processes. Finally, the status of conflict in political-economic theory is contrasted with the status accorded to conflict in evolutionary behavioral theory, and the professional responsibility of sexual-selection workers to consider the ethical dimension of their research is underscored.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/680/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii', u'Department of Psychology / Department of Neurobiology & Behavior, Cornell University', u'Department of Biology, University of Pennsylvania', u'Department of Integrative Biology & Museum of Vertebrate Zoology, University of California, Berkeley', u'Centre for Ecological Sciences, Indian Institute of Science', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University', u'Behavioural Ecology Group, Wageningen University', u'Faculty of Philosophy, University Jean Moulin Lyon 3', u'Department of Logic and Philosophy of Science, University of California', u'Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University', u'Department of Ecology & Evolutionary Biology, Yale University', u'Department of Entomology, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Bath', u'Department of Biology, University of Kentucky', u'Department of Philosophy, University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Pronounced and prevalent intersexuality does not impede the \u2018Demon Shrimp\u2019 invasion', ['Amaia Green Etxabe', 'Stephen Short', 'Tim Flood', 'Tim Johns', 'Alex T Ford'], u'2015-01-10', u'Crustacean intersexuality is widespread and often linked to infection by sex-distorting parasites. However, unlike vertebrate intersexuality, its association with sexual dysfunction is unclear and remains a matter of debate. The \u2018Demon Shrimp\u2019, Dikerogammarus haemobaphes, an amphipod that has invaded continental waterways, has recently become widespread in Britain. Intersexuality has been noted in D. haemobaphes but not investigated further. We hypothesise that a successful invasive population should not display a high prevalence of intersexuality if this condition represents a truly dysfunctional phenotype. In addition, experiments have indicated that particular parasite burdens in amphipods may facilitate invasions. The rapid and ongoing invasion of British waterways represents an opportunity to determine whether these hypotheses are consistent with field observations. This study investigates the parasites and sexual phenotypes of D. haemobaphes in British waterways, characterising parasite burdens using molecular screening, and make comparisons with the threatened Gammarus pulex natives. We reveal that invasive and native populations have distinct parasitic profiles, suggesting the loss of G. pulex may have parasite-mediated eco-system impacts. Furthermore, the parasite burdens are consistent with those previously proposed to facilitate biological invasions. Our study also indicates that while no intersexuality occurs in the native G. pulex, approximately 50% of D. haemobaphes males present pronounced intersexuality associated with infection by the microsporidian Dictyocoela berillonum. This unambiguously successful invasive population presents, to our knowledge, the highest reported prevalence of male intersexuality. This is the clearest evidence to date that such intersexuality does not represent a form of debilitating sexual dysfunction that negatively impacts amphipod populations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/687/', ['Ecology', 'Parasitology', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute of Marine Sciences, Biological Sciences, University of Portsmouth', u'Environment Agency']]
[u'A variant nerve that mimics the left recurrent laryngeal nerve: a case study in human anatomy', ['Dickran Altounian', 'Cathy M Tran', 'Christina Tran', 'Allison Spencer', 'Alexandra Shendrik', 'Brian P Kraatz', 'Mathew J Wedel'], u'2015-01-08', u'We describe a variant nerve in a human cadaver patient that parallels the course of the left recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN). Like the normal left RLN, the variant nerve branches from the vagus nerve and wraps around the arch of the aorta, but it passes anterior and medial to the ligamentum arteriosum (= fetal ductus arteriosus) instead of behind it like the normal RLN. After recurring around the aorta, the variant nerve joins the esophageal plexus and also appears to connect to the cervical sympathetic chain. The bilaterally paired RLNs supply innervation not only to the larynx but also to the upper parts of the trachea and esophagus, in particular those parts derived from the 4th and 6th pharyngeal arches. We hypothesize that in this case, some of the nerve fibers to the trachea and esophagus were pulled down into the torso by the 4th embryonic aortic arch (= the arch of the aorta in adults), but passed cranial to the 6th embryonic aortic arch (= fetal ductus arteriosus). From where it recurs around the aorta to join the esophageal plexus, the variant nerve is very similar to the pararecurrent nerve in dogs, so there is at least a partial precedent in another placental mammal. Understanding the relationships of the embryonic pharyngeal and aortic arches and their adult derivatives is crucial for correctly identifying the RLN, especially when imposter nerves, like the one documented here, are present.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/781/', ['Anthropology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Pacific, Western University of Health Sciences', u'College of Dental Medicine, Western University of Health Sciences', u'College of Podiatric Medicine, Western University of Health Sciences']]
[u'Observations of Blossfeldia liliputana (Cactaceae) populations in Jujuy province (Argentina)', ['Bernd Panassiti', 'Osvaldo Ahumada', 'Stefan Porembski'], u'2015-01-07', u'Introduction. Blossfeldia liliputana Werdermann (Cactaceae) is known as the tiniest cactus with a distribution from southern Bolivia and to mid-west Argentina. Due to the inconspicuous habitus, little was known about the environmental effects on its distribution. The main objectives of this study were to describe the distribution of B. liliputana in Jujuy province, north-western Argentina, and to identify abiotic and biotic environmental parameters affecting the numerical abundance of B. liliputana populations.\nMaterial and methods. Using existing information about ecology and previously described growth sites, we localized populations of B. liliputana and counted the number of above ground stems (hereinafter referred as \u201cheads\u201d) within plots of 10cm2. A set of environmental data was derived from direct measurements, laboratory analysis and literature. Descriptive and multivariate statistics were used to infer habitat requirements.\nResults. We found seven locations with B. liliputana populations at Jujuy. Average populations size per plot ranged from four to 22 heads. B. liliputana prefers shaded rock crevices made of shale and slates and a annual mean temperature below 14\xb0C and a annual precipitation lower than 200 mm. Seed dispersal by ants was not observed.\nDiscussion. Although even after extensive field survey as much as seven locations were found, the cactus is not scarcely distributed rather the habitat is located in hardly accessible areas. Our findings suggest that B. liliputana is a habitat specialist adapted to extreme environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/780/', ['Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Botany, University of Rostock, Institute of Biosciences', u'C\xe1tedra de Bot\xe1nica General-Herbario JUA. Facultad de Ciencias Agrarias, Universidad Nacional de Jujuy. Argentina']]
[u'Low-cost, low-input RNA-seq protocols perform nearly as well as high-input protocols', ['Peter A Combs', 'Michael B Eisen'], u'2015-01-07', u'Recently, a number of protocols extending RNA-sequencing to the single-cell regime have been published. However, we were concerned that the additional steps to deal with such minute quantities of input sample would introduce serious biases that would make analysis of the data using existing approaches invalid. In this study, we performed a critical evaluation of several of these low-volume RNA-seq protocols, and found that they performed slightly less well in metrics of interest to us than a more standard protocol, but with at least two orders of magnitude less sample required. We also explored a simple modification to one of these protocols that, for many samples, reduced the cost of library preparation to approximately $20/sample.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/779/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Graduate Program in Biophysics, University of California', u'Department of Molecular and Cell Biology, University of California, Berkeley', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Assessment of water pollution in the Brazilian Pampa biome by means of stress biomarkers in tadpoles of the leaf frog Phyllomedusa iheringii (Anura: Hylidae)', ['Tiago G Santos', 'Roberto Melo', 'Dennis Costa e Silva', 'Mauro Nunes', 'Jeferson Franco, JL Franco'], u'2015-01-06', u'The Brazilian Pampa biome is currently under constant threat due to increase of agriculture and improper management of urban effluents. Studies with focus on the assessment of impacts caused by human activities in this biome are scarce. In the present study we measured stress-related biomarkers in the muscle tissue of tadpoles of the leaf frog Phyllomedusa iheringii as a tool for the assessment of potential aquatic contamination in selected ponds (S1 and S2) nearby agricultural areas in comparison to a reference site. A significant decrease in acetylcholinesterase activity was observed in S2 when compared to S1 and reference. The levels of total-hydroperoxides were increased in S2 site. In parallel, increased activity of the antioxidant enzymes catalase, superoxide dismutase and glutathione S-transferase were observed in S2 when compared to S1 and reference. Based on the results, we drawn attention to the harmful effects caused by indiscriminate use of pesticides on the Pampa biome borders. Our study also validates Phyllomedusa iheringii as a valuable organism for field-based ecotoxicological studies. M', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/776/', ['Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Toxicology'], [u'Laborat\xf3rio de Estudos em Biodiversidade Pampeana (LEBIP, Universidade Federal do Pampa, Campus S\xe3o Gabriel', u'Centro Interdisciplinar de Pesquisas em Biotecnologia (CIPBIOTEC), Universidade Federal do Pampa, Campus S\xe3o Gabriel']]
[u'Selaginella and the satyr: Euptychia westwoodi larval performance on an ancient plant lineage', ['Christopher Hamm'], u'2015-01-05', u'Members of the plant genus Selaginella are often considered living fossils, as extant taxa are virtually indistinguishable from 300 Ma fossils. In contrast, the brush-footed butterflies are a relatively recent radiation, having diversified primarily within the last 60 Ma. Satyrs are among the most derived of these butterflies, likely radiated ~35 Ma and are known primarily for their high diversity and propensity to feed on grasses and sedges. In contrast to its close relatives, the Neotropical satyr genus Euptychia also feeds on Selaginella, which is thought to be nutrient poor. Using no choice feeding experiments, I compared growth rates Costa Rican E. westwoodi that were offered two species of Selaginella, to those that were offered Lasiascis rusifolia, a grass commonly fed upon by close relatives. I discovered E. westwoodi larvae fed on two species of Selaginella and there was no difference in mass gained between the two species. However, larvae refused to feed on L. ruscifolia and lost mass over the course of the trial and expired unless they were transferred to Selaginella. To the best of my knowledge, these are the first data to report larval performance of the butterfly genus Euptychia or any Selaginella feeding insect. . Though far from conclusive, these results support the proposition that Euptychia have lost the ability to feed on other host plants and are now specialized on grasses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/775/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Kansas']]
[u'Noise and metabolic free energy in high-order biocognition', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2015-01-05', u"We examine the possible role of 'noise' as a control signal for large-scale cognitive biological phenomena that recruit simpler cognitive modules into temporary, dynamic working coalitions. Noise color, as well as magnitude, may convey essential control information, a possibly important extension of the Data Rate Theorem. An adaptation of the Black-Scholes model suggests the availability of metabolic free energy can determine rates of coalition biocognition in the presence of noise. Evolutionary process may have exapted colored noise as a subtle tool for the regulation of biological phenomena, supplementing direct molecular signals. Experimental verification of this conjecture may be similarly subtle.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/774/', ['Biophysics', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Dark Research: information content in many modern research papers is not easily discoverable online', ['Ross Mounce'], u'2015-01-05', u'Background: Research is published in indexed, online scholarly journals so that published knowledge can be easily found and built upon by others. Most scholars rely on relatively few online indexing service providers to search for relevant scholarly content. It is under-appreciated that the quality of indexing can vary across different journals and that this can have an adverse effect on the quality of research. Objective: In this short paper I compare the recall of commonly used online indexers; Google Scholar, Web of Knowledge, Scopus, Microsoft Academic Search and Mendeley Search against a selection of over 20,000 papers published in two different high-volume journals: PLOS ONE and Zootaxa. Results: When using Google Scholar, content in Zootaxa has low recall for search terms that are known to occur in it, significantly lower than the near-perfect recall of the same terms in PLOS ONE. All other indexers tend to have lower recall than Google Scholar except Scopus which outperformed Google Scholar for recall on Zootaxa searches. I also elaborate why Dark Research is undesirable for optimal scientific progress with some recommendations for change. Conclusion: This research is a basic proof-of-concept which demonstrates that when searching for published scholarly content, relevant studies can remain hidden as \u2019Dark Research\u2019 in poorly-indexed journals, even despite expertise-informed efforts to find the content. The technological capability to do full text indexing on all modern scholarly journal content certainly exists, it is perhaps just publisher-imposed access-restrictions on content that prevents this from happening.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/773/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Biology & Biochemistry Department, University of Bath']]
[u'Unusual characteristics of opaque Ishikawa endometrial cells include the envelopment of chromosomes with material containing endogenous biotin in the latter stages of cytokinesis', ['Honoree Fleming'], u'2014-12-31', u'We have identified a small dynamic population of opaque cells in Ishikawa endometrial cultures whose unusual characteristics include the fact that chromosomes become enveloped during the final stages of cytokinesis by material staining for endogenous biotin. Endogenous biotin, ultimately shown to be due to mitochondrial carboxylases, was detected in a membrane that wraps around aggregated nuclei in syncytia that develop as part of the differentiation of domes in Ishikawa cells. (Fleming H et al. 1998). The \u201cwrapped chromosomes\u201d in individual opaque Ishikawa cells stain similarly suggesting a similar origin. We were able to show that opaque cells form from transparent monolayer cells, can be polyploid, and often appear to be detaching from the colony and from the underlying substrate. We were also able to show an opaque cell fissioning asymmetrically, to give rise to a monolayer cell whose nucleus appeared to be wrapped. We believe that the cycle of differentiation of monolayer cells into opaque, polyploid cells and depolyploidization back into monolayer cells is involved in the spatial extension of cells as they develop from discrete colonies into a confluent monolayer. Wrapping of chromosomes may ensure that complete genomes are inherited by daughter cells during depolyploidization.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/772/', ['Cell Biology'], [u'Dean of Education, retired, Castleton State College', u'CancerCellsinVitro.com']]
[u'Impact of wolf hunting policy on moose populations in northern Minnesota', ['Thomas B Kelly', 'Thomas J Mackey'], u'2014-12-31', u'An ongoing and politically sensitive aspect of proper ecological stewardship revolves around improving the conditions and health of all of the species in the area of concern including both predator and prey species. Human industrial activities have dramatically reduced the land area available to the native species which has placed stresses and fragility into the ecological web. Maintaining proper ecological dynamics has become a critical aspect of policy initiatives designed to safeguard our natural reserves including the establishment of ecological forests and sanctuaries. Herein we outline our proposal to tackle a central issue in wildlife management: improving our knowledge of predator-prey dynamics that vary both temporally and specially in non-linear ways. By leveraging techniques pioneered in other disciplines in addition to the traditional methods, we aim to drastically improve our understanding of the Moose-Grey Wolf interaction and to develop a system with applicability in other regions and other species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/769/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Sciences, Florida State University', u'Department of Biology, A&S, Boston College']]
[u'Effects of simulated nitrogen deposition and a stable isotopic assessment for the neotropical epiphytic orchid Laelia speciosa', ['Edison A. Diaz-Alvarez', 'Roberto Lindig-Cisneros', 'Casandra Reyes-Garcia', 'Erick de la Barrera'], u'2014-12-31', u'The accelerated increase of nitrogen deposition is the third cause of biodiversity loss, as a result of saturation of ecosystems worldwide. The effects of nitrogen deposition on the endemic and endangered neotropical epiphytic orchid, Laelia speciosa, were evaluated via a dose-response experiment and a stable isotopic field assessment for individuals from a city and from an oak forest, in order to evaluate the potential risk facing this orchid, and record the history of the nitrogen deposition of series of consecutive annually produced pseudobulbs. Lower doses of nitrogen of up to 20 kg N ha yr\u20131 the dose that led to optimal performance of plants, acted as fertilizer. For instance, chlorophyll content and chlorophyll fluorescence (Fv/Fm) peaked at 0.66 \xb1 0.03 g m-2 and 0.85 \xb1 0.01, respectively. In contrast, toxic effects were observed at the higher doses of 40 and 80 kg N ha yr\u20131, leading a decrease of 38% of the chlorophyll content and 23% of the chlorophyll fluorescence. For the field assessment, a tissue nitrogen content of 1.2 \xb1 0.1% (dry mass basis) for the orchids suggested non-toxic deposition rates both at the city and the oak forest. However, their respective isotopic signatures revealed different sources of N at each site. Indeed, in the oak forest \u03b415N amounted \u20133.1 \xb1 0.3\u2030, typical of places with low industrial activities, while in the city the \u03b415N reached 5.6 \xb1 0.2\u2030, typical of sites with some degree of industrial and automobile activity. Laelia speciosa would be an adequate bioindicator of nitrogen deposition because its ability to take up nitrogen from the atmosphere while preserving its isotopic signature and showing a clear physiological response to increasing inputs of nitrogen. However, its limited geographical distribution precludes the orchid as an ideal candidate for biomonitoring. Thus other vascular epiphytes should be considered for this purpose.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/771/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Centro de Investigaciones en Ecosistemas, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico (UNAM)', u'Unidad de Recursos Naturales, Centro de Investigaci\xf3n Cient\xedfica de Yucat\xe1n']]
[u'Cryopreservation of lumpfish Cyclopterus lumpus (Linnaeus, 1758) milt', ['Gunnvr  Nordberg', 'Asa Johannesen', 'Regin Arge'], u'2014-12-30', u'This study has established a successful protocol to cryopreserve lumpfish Cyclopterus lumpus (Linnaeus, 1758) milt. Three cryosolutions were tested based on Mounib\u2019s medium; the original medium including reduced l-glutathione (L-Glu), the basic sucrose and potassium bicarbonate medium without L-Glu, or with hen\u2019s egg yolk (EY). Dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO) was used as the cryoprotectant along with all three diluents in a 1 to 2 dilution. Cryopreservation was performed with the mentioned cryosolutions at two freezing rates. Motility percentages of spermatozoa were evaluated using ImageJ with a computer assisted sperm analyzer (CASA) plug-in. Findings revealed that spermatozoa cryopreserved in Mounib\u2019s medium without L-Glu had a post-thaw motility score of 8.64 percentage points (pp) higher than to that with added L-Glu, and an addition of EY to the Mounib\u2019s medium lowered the post-thaw motility score by 15.07 pp. The difference in motility between both freezing rates was 5.23 pp, and samples cryopreserved on a 4.8 cm high tray resulted in a better post-thaw motility score. Cryopreserved milt had a 23.76 pp lower post-thaw motility score when compared with fresh milt. Cryopreservation of lumpfish milt has, to our knowledge, never been successfully carried out before. The established protocol will be a main contributing factor in a stable production of lumpfish juveniles in future.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/770/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science'], [u'Fiskaaling, Aquacultural Research Station of the Faroes']]
[u'On the complementation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae MET16 in Schizosaccharomyces pombe', ['Thomas B Kelly'], u'2014-12-29', u'Metabolically active pathways tend to be more highly conserved between ecologically similar relatives than other pathways for their critical role in life-functions. The developmental features of Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces cerevisiae may have become quite divergent, but their ecological niche is still quite similar. The functional homology between S. cerevisiae\u2019s MET16p and S. pombe\u2019s was investigated through plasmid insertion and sulfate assimilation assays in S. pombe. Although the S. cerevisiae:MET16p was produced, the S. pombe colonies were unable to utilize extracellular sulfate in the synthesis of Methionine.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/768/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Genetics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Boston College', u'Department of Earth, Ocean and Atmospheric Science, Florida State University']]
[u'A longitudinal study of potential mediators of the relationship between inattention and academic achievement in a community sample of elementary school children', ['Sarah Gray', 'Rosemary Tannock'], u'2014-12-28', u'Introduction: Behavioral attention, working memory (WM), and academic achievement share significant variance, but the direction of relationships across development are unknown. The aim of the present study was to determine whether WM mediates the pathway between inattentive behaviour and subsequent academic outcomes. Methods: 204 students from grades 1-4 (50% female) were recruited from elementary schools. Participants received assessments of WM and achievement at baseline and one year later. Teachers completed the SWAN behaviour rating scale both years. Mediation analysis with PROCESS (Hayes, 2013) was used to determine mediation pathways. Results: Inattention indirectly and directly influenced math addition, subtraction and calculation scores through its effect on visual-spatial WM. Children who displayed better attention had higher WM scores, and children with higher WM scores had stronger scores on math outcomes. Bias-corrected bootstrap confidence intervals for the indirect effects were entirely below zero for three out of four math outcomes. WM did not mediate the direct relationship between inattention and math and reading fluency scores. Discussion: Findings identify inattention and WM as longitudinal predictors for math addition, subtraction and calculation outcomes one year later, with visual-spatial WM as significant mediator. Results highlight the close relationship between inattention and WM and their importance in the development of math skills.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/767/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Applied Psychology and Human Development, Ontario Institute of Studies in Education, University of Toronto', u'Neurosciences & Mental Health Research Program, Research Institute of the Hospital for Sick Children']]
[u'Health status of veterans with spinal cord injury during screening program in Tehran 2013: Investigating the pulmonary function - a preliminary report', ['Ghasem Azimi', 'Arash Divanbeigi', 'Taher Doroudi', 'Amir Emami', 'Alireza Yarandi'], u'2014-12-28', u'Respiratory problems are a major cause of mortality in people with spinal cord injury. More than 2000 veterans with spinal cord injury live in Iran. This study aimed to evaluate the pulmonary function of veterans with spinal cord injury participating in the health-screening program in Tehran-2013. This retrospective descriptive study was conducted by reviewing participants\u2019 medical records. All veterans (368) were male with the mean age of 49.62 \xb1 6.45 years. The mean time since injury was 27.17 \xb1 5.03 years; 32 veterans (8.7%) suffered from tetraplegia and 336 (91.3%) were paraplegic; 120 veterans (32.6%) had complete spinal cord injury and 248 had incomplete spinal cord injury (67.4%). Among them, 159 veterans had difficulty coughing; 198 complained of dyspnea and 119 had a history of hospitalization for pneumonia during the last year. It seems that veterans\u2019 pulmonary status in the screening was appropriate indicating the suitability of periodic visits to veterans in the home care program. It is suggested that future studies be conducted simultaneously with health screening programs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/766/', ['Public Health'], [u'Department of Internal Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Shahed University', u'Student Research Committee, Urmia University of Medical Sciences', u'Shefa Neuroscience Research Center, Khatam Alanbia Hospital']]
[u'A field based study of swimbladder adjustment in a physostomous teleost fish', ['Kostas Ganias', 'Cristina Nunes'], u'2014-12-27', u'The present study assesses swimbladder dynamics in natural occurring sardine, Sardina pilchardus, populations with the aim to examine whether this is affected by bathymetric positioning and the physiological state of the individuals. To do so swimbladder size and shape were modeled in relation to catch depth and the size of various visceral compartments such as gonad, liver, fat and stomach. Swimbladder size was shown to be related to depth in a way that individuals with smaller swimbladders occurred at larger depths. Moreover, evidence is provided that swimbladder in sardine might have a functional relationship both with the reproductive and the feeding state of individuals since none of the fish with hydrated gonads and/or large stomachs displayed distended swimbladders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/764/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'School of Biology, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki', u'Department of Marine resources, Instituto Portugues do Mar e Atmosfera']]
[u'High prevalence of asymptomatic carrier state with 2009 pandemic influenza virus in a remote rural South Indian community in the year 2012', ['Anita A Kumar', 'Ghanshyam Palamaner Subash Shantha', 'Mansha Sethi', 'Rohit C Khanna'], u'2014-12-27', u'Introduction:\nThere is scarcity of global data with regards to rates of asymptomatic carrier state due to 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza virus. It will be interesting to study asymptomatic carrier state in the year 2012 when the global pandemic has been controlled. In this study we have attempted to evaluate the rates of asymptomatic carrier state due to this virus in a remote rural community from South India.\nMethods:\n380 consecutive, asymptomatic, community living adults without history of respiratory illness in the last 30 days were studied. Demographic and clinical profile was noted. Throat swab was obtained and tested by RT-PCR (reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction) for swine influenza A (HINI) as per CDC (Centers for Disease Control) protocol. Participants who were positive in this test were followed weekly by clinical evaluation for a period of 4 weeks to look for onset of respiratory symptoms.\nResults:\nMean age was 42.58 yrs. Males formed 48.3% of the cohort. Mean body mass index was 23.62 kg/m2. 16.3% and 10.5% were diagnosed to have diabetes mellitus and hypertension respectively. None of the study participants had received seasonal influenza vaccine or pandemic H1N1 influenza vaccine. RT-PCR identified asymptomatic infection in 41 participants (10.8%). In uni-variate and multi-variate logistic regression analysis there were no significant associations between having asymptomatic carrier state, diabetes diagnosis, gender, age, BMI, hemoglobin A1C%. On follow-up none of the 41 positive participants developed respiratory symptoms.\nConclusion:\nHigh prevalence of asymptomatic carrier state after 2009 H1N1 influenza virus pandemic was found in our study in the year 2012. The significance of asymptomatic infection remains unclear.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/763/', ['Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University', u'Sri Ramachandra University', u'Department of Internal Medicine, The Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education', u'School of Medicine, Temple University', u'Allen Foster Research Center for Community Eye Health, International Center for Advancement of Rural Eye Care, LV Prasad Eye Institute']]
[u'A white-box model of population growth', ['Lev V. Kalmykov', 'Vyacheslav L. Kalmykov'], u'2014-12-27', u'Background. Integration of reductionist and holistic approaches is one of the great challenges for mathematical modeling. Mathematical models of complex systems are divided into black-box, white-box and grey-box types. A black-box model is completely nonmechanistic as internal mechanisms of a modeled complex system are hidden. A white-box model demonstrates direct mechanisms of functioning of a complex system. It holistically shows all events at microlevel, mesolevel and macrolevel of a modeled system at all stages of its dynamics. Earlier we have used the white-box modeling for verification and reformulation of the competitive exlusion principle. Here we investigate our white-box model of single-species population dynamics. This is fundamentally important because most basic ecological models are of black-box type, including Malthusian, Verhulst, Lotka-Volterra models. Methods. Our white-box model of single-species population growth is a purely logical deterministic individual-based cellular automata model. A biological prototype of the model is a vegetative propagation of rhizomatous lawn grasses. Using the Monte Carlo method, we investigate a role of different initial positioning of an individual in the habitat. We also investigate different size and structure of the habitat and two types of fecundity. Results. We have created and investigated a logical white-box model of an ecosystem with one species. This model demonstrates mechanisms of the S-shaped and double S-shaped population growth. We have investigated population growth limited by different factors, in particular by resources, habitat structure, intraspecific competition, lifetime of individuals, regeneration time and fecundity of individuals. We have compared the S-shaped curves with J-shaped curves of population growth. Conclusion. We present a basic white-box model of population dynamics which combines reductionist and holistic approaches. Integration of reductionist and holistic approaches is provided by the simultaneous modeling of both part-whole and cause-effect relations in complex system. We consider this holystic multi-level white-box modeling approach as a method of artificial intelligence which works as hyper-logical automatic deductive inference that provides direct mechanistic insights into complex systems. The white-box modeling by logical deterministic cellular automata is a perspective way for investigation not only of population dynamics but also of any complex systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/762/', ['Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Theoretical and Experimental Biophysics, Russian Academy of Sciences', u'Institute of Cell Biophysics of Russian Academy of Sciences', u'Pushchino State Institute of Natural Sciences']]
[u'Understanding of emotions and cardiovascular related diseases', ['Dimitrios Vlachakis', 'Chrisanthy Vlachakis'], u'2014-12-27', u'The aim of the present study is to examine the relation between understanding of emotions and cardiovascular related diseases, namely coronary heart disease, diabetes mellitus and obesity. Coronary heart disease is a type of cardiovascular disease that usually coexists with other diseases, such as diabetes mellitus and obesity. The uniqueness of this study lies in the fact that examined the relationship between the cardiovascular related diseases named above and the understanding of emotions in the context of Emotional Intelligence (EI). The latter consists of a wide range of psychological factors that reflect many aspects of human thought and behavior, providing a very comprehensive picture of each person. The experimental design through the observed variables were approached, has not been applied in previous studies internationally. The study was conducted in 300 participants during a 3 year period. All participants completed a self-report questionnaire, assessing various aspects of EI, such as self-emotion appraisal, other emotion appraisal, emotion regulation and use of emotions. As hypothesized, coronary heart disease is a prognostic factor of regulation of emotions. The results of this study extend and reinforce the findings of previous studies, which emphasize on the relationship of cardiovascular related diseases and psychological characteristics, such as anxiety and anger, being aspects of EI. Additionally, this work fills a gap in the relevant Greek literature, as a first attempt to examine the correlation of EI with cardiovascular related diseases. New approaches are needed to improve primary prevention, early detection and clinical management of those diseases. Furthermore, this study focused on the need to cultivate and improve EI of patients, in order to eliminate the effects of the diseases.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/761/', ['Nutrition', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Bioinformatics & Medical Informatics Team, Biomedical Research Foundation, Academy of Athens', u'Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Harokopio University']]
[u'Coral community bleaching response on a highly urbanised reef', ['James R Guest', 'Jeffrey Low', 'Karenne Tun', 'Jani I Tanzil', 'Peter A Todd', 'Tai Chong Toh', 'Loke Ming Chou', 'Peter D Steinberg'], u'2014-12-25', u'Projected increases in the magnitude and frequency of sea surface temperature anomalies present a significant threat to the persistence of tropical coral reefs, however, detailed studies of community level responses to thermal stress are needed if its effect on reef resilience are to be understood. While many studies report on broad, regional scale responses to thermal stress (e.g., proportion of corals bleached), far fewer examine variation in susceptibility among taxa and change in coral community structure, before, during and after bleaching on individual reefs. Furthermore, relatively few studies of bleaching response come from highly urbanised reefs that experience chronic disturbances such as elevated sedimentation and turbidity. Here we report in detail on the bleaching response of corals at a highly urbanised reef site south of mainland Singapore during (June, July) and immediately after (October) a major thermal coral bleaching event in 2010. To estimate the capacity for resistance and resilience to thermal stress, we report on a) the overall bleaching severity during and after the event, b) differences in bleaching susceptibility among taxa during the event and c) the response of the reef in terms of taxonomic community structure before (2009) and after (2012) bleaching. Despite severe bleaching in 2010 (66% of colonies bleached), post-bleaching recovery appeared to be relatively rapid and coral taxa that are usually highly susceptible (e.g., Acropora and Pocillopora) were relatively unaffected, i.e., either they did not bleach or they bleached and recovered. Although there was no significant change in coral taxonomic community structure among years, taxa that bleached most severely tended to have the greatest reductions in relative cover. Several factors may have contributed to the overall high resistance of this site to bleaching including turbidity, symbiont affiliation and heterotrophy. A parsimonious explanation for the reversed pattern of bleaching susceptibility among taxa is that these coral populations have adapted and/or acclimatised to thermal stress. Despite ongoing chronic anthropogenic impacts, we suggest that this site has potential for rapid recovery of coral cover due to the dominant coral taxa and growth forms being capable of rapid regrowth from remnant colonies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/760/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Advanced Environmental Biotechnology Centre, Nanyang Technological University', u'Centre for Marine Bio-Innovation, University of New South Wales', u'Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore', u'National Biodiversity Centre, National Parks Board', u'Earth Observatory Singapore, Nanyang Technological University', u'Tropical Marine Science Institute, National University of Singapore', u'Sydney Institute of Marine Science, University of New South Wales']]
[u'Your wish is my command! Influence of symbolic modelling on preschool children\u2019s delay of gratification', ['Damian Scarf', 'Sahlia Kumst'], u'2014-12-23', u'Children\u2019s ability to delay gratification is correlated with a range of positive outcomes in adulthood, showing the potential impact of helping young children increase their competence in this area. This study investigated the influence of symbolic models on 3-year-old children\u2019s self-control. Eighty-three children were randomly assigned to one of three modelling conditions: personal story-telling, impersonal story-telling, and control. Children were tested on the delay-of-gratification maintenance paradigm both before and after being exposed to a symbolic model or control condition. Repeated measures ANOVA revealed no significant differences between the two story-telling groups and the control group, indicating that the symbolic models did not influence children\u2019s ability to delay gratification. A serendipitous finding showed a positive relationship between children\u2019s ability to wait and their production and accurate use of temporal terms, which was more pronounced in girls than boys. This finding may be an indication that a higher temporal vocabulary is linked to a continuous representation of the self in time, facilitating children\u2019s representation of the future-self receiving a larger reward than what the present-self could receive.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/759/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Otago', u'Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Maastricht University']]
[u'Powerline noise elimination in neural signals via blind source separation and wavelet analysis', ['Samuel Akwei-Sekyere'], u'2014-12-23', u'The distortion of neural signals by powerline noise from recording biomedical devices has the potential to reduce the quality and convolute the interpretations of neural data. State of the art electrophysiology employs band-stop filters with which powerline noise are attenuated to low-amplitudes. Due to the instability of neural signals, the distribution of signals filtered out may not be centered at \\(50/60Hz\\). As a result, self-correction methods are needed to optimize the performance of these filters. Since powerline noise is additive in nature, it is intuitive to model powerline noise in a raw electrophysiological recording and subtract it from the raw data in order to obtain neural data. This paper proposes a method that utilizes this approach by decomposing the recorded signal and extracting powerline noise via blind source separation and wavelet analysis. The performance of this algorithm was compared with that of a band-stop finite impulse response filter. The proposed method was able to expel sinusoidal signals within powerline noise frequency range with higher fidelity in comparison with the mentioned band-stop finite impulse response filter, especially at low signal-to-noise ratio.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/758/', ['Bioengineering', 'Computational Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Neuroscience Program, Michigan State University']]
[u'Ambient air pollution and depressive symptoms', ['Mieczyslaw Szyszkowicz', 'Brian H Rowe'], u'2014-12-22', u'Background. Depression is among the most common mental health problems. Depression interferes with daily functioning and quality of life. Many factors can contribute to depression and air pollution can initiate or intensify symptoms of depression.\nMethods. Case-crossover method was used to study associations between emergency department (ED) visits for depression and ambient air pollution. The statistical analysis was applied for patients of different ages.\nResults. Positive and statistically significant results, (communicated as odds ratios), were obtained for exposure to ambient carbon monoxide and ED visits for depression.\nDiscussion. The presented results support the hypothesis that recent exposures to ambient levels of air pollutants can contribute clinically significant worsening in depression symptoms leading to ED visits. As the results suggest the associations are age dependent.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/757/', ['Epidemiology'], [u'Population Studies Division, Health Canada', u'Department of Emergency Medicine and School of Public Health, University of Alberta']]
[u'Morphological evidence supports Dryolestoid affinities for the living Australian marsupial mole Notoryctes', ['Federico Agnolin', 'Nicolas Chimento'], u'2014-12-21', u'Recent discoveries demonstrated that the southern continents were a cradle for the evolutionary radiation of dryolestoid mammals at the end of the Cretaceous. Moreover, it becomes evident that some of these early mammals surpassed the K/T boundary in South America, at least. Notoryctes is a poorly known living mammal, currently distributed in the deserts of central Australia. Due to its extreme modifications to fossoriality and peculiar anatomy, the phylogenetic relationships of this genus were debated in the past, but most recent authors agree in its marsupial affinities. A comparative survey of the anatomy of Notoryctes reveals the poorly sustained marsupial affinities for the genus and striking plesiomorphies for a living mammal. Surprisingly, Notoryctes exhibits similarities with dryolestoids. Dryolestoids were a diverse and mainly mesozoic mammalian group phylogenetically nested between the egg-lying monotremes and derived therians. In particular, Notoryctes share a number of shared features with the extinct dryolestoid Necrolestes, from the Miocene of Patagonia. Both taxa conform a clade of burrowing and animalivorous dryolestoids that survived other members of their lineage probably due to their peculiar habits. Accordingly, Notoryctes constitutes a \u201cliving-fossil\u201d from the supposedly extinct dryolestoid radiation, extending the biochron of the group more than 20 million years to the present day. The intermediate phylogenetic position of Notoryctes has the pivotal potential to shed light on crucial anatomical, physiological, ecological, and evolutionary topics in the deep transformation from egg-lying to placental mammals. This finding, together with the Australian monotremes, constitutes the second example of early mammals that survived in Gondwana well after the KT boundary.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/755/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Ciencias Naturales y Antropolog\xeda, CEBBAD -Universidad Maim\xf3nides', u'Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales \u201cBernardino Rivadavia\u201d']]
[u'Codon optimization of Col H gene encoding Clostridium histolyticum collagenase to express in Escherichia coli', ['Hamzeh Alipour', 'Abbasali Raz', 'Navid Dinparast Djadid', 'Abbas Rami', 'Seyed Mohammad Amin Mahdian'], u'2014-12-21', u'A given amino acid sequence can be encoded by a huge number of different nucleic acid sequences. These sequences, however, prove not to be equally useful. The choice of sequence can significantly impact the expression of an encoded protein. As regards the importance of protein-coding sequence and promising industrial and medicinal applications of Clostridium histolyticum collagenase, this study examined the codon optimization of the Col H gene so as to enhance collagenase expression in Escherichia coli (E. coli). The coding region of mature Col H gene was optimized according to the codon usage of E. coli using Gene Designer software (DNA 2.0). The results revealed that relative frequency of codon usage in Col H gene was adapted to the most preferred triplets in E. coli in such a way that codon usage bias in E. coli was enhanced after codon optimization. Similarly, the higher level of collagenase expression was more likely the result of substituting rare codons with optimal codons. As has been reported elsewhere, the findings from this study suggest that codon optimization provides a theoretical improvement in Col H gene expression in E. coli. In spite of that, experimental research is needed to confirm the improvement.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/754/', ['Biotechnology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Malaria and Vector Research Group [MVRG], Biotechnology Research Center [BRC], Pasteur Institute of Iran', u'Department of Medical Entomology and Vector Control, Research Centre for Health Sciences, School of Health, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences']]
[u'Fighting a moving target: Leapfrogging to new information systems for malaria vector monitoring and control', ['Mauro Braganca', 'Bruno de Sousa', 'Jacques Derek Charlwood'], u'2014-12-21', u'In order to adapt control efforts to the moving target of malaria, new ways of rapidly processing and using data are required to produce usable information. Portable electronic devices with software applications, collectively known as mHealth, are increasingly used to assist health services and manage patient information. Here we describe the development of an mHealth system, using mobile phones, for data collection and analysis in resource-constrained environments. The system overcomes many of the difficulties presented by other mHealth systems. An asynchronous, Internet connection-independent data collection system, similar to web-based architecture, is proposed. Reporting and advanced statistical and epidemiological analysis, with external data integration, such as environmental datasets, is demonstrated by a pilot assessment of the system in Mozambique. We argue that this technology can provide the entomological and epidemiological information needed for sensible decision-making processes and the development of public health policies regarding malaria control.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/753/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Entomology', 'Epidemiology', 'Global Health'], [u'Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Centro de Mal\xe1ria e Doen\xe7as Tropicais, Instituto de Higiene e Medicina Tropical, Universidade Nova de Lisboa', u'Faculty of Psychology and Education Sciences, University of Coimbra', u'Department of Entomology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine']]
[u'Effects of preservation methods of muscle tissue from upper-trophic level reef fishes on stable isotope values (\u03b413C and \u03b415N)', ['Christopher D. Stallings', 'James A. Neslon', 'Katherine L. Rozar', 'Charles S. Adams', 'Kara R. Wall', 'Theodore S. Switzer', 'Brent L. Winner', 'David J. Hollander'], u'2014-12-21', u'Research that uses stable isotope analysis often involves a delay between sample collection in the field and laboratory processing, therefore requiring preservation to prevent or reduce tissue degradation and associated isotopic compositions. Although there is a growing literature describing the effects of various preservation techniques, the results are often contextual, unpredictable and vary among taxa, suggesting the need to treat each species individually. We conducted a controlled experiment to test the effects of four preservation methods of muscle tissue from four species of upper trophic-level reef fish collected from the eastern Gulf of Mexico (Red Grouper Epinephelus morio, Gag Mycteroperca microlepis, Scamp Mycteroperca phenax, and Red Snapper Lutjanus campechanus). We used a paired design to measure the effects on isotopic values for carbon and nitrogen after storage using ice, 95% ethanol, and sodium chloride (table salt), against that in a liquid nitrogen control. Mean offsets for both \u03b413C and \u03b415N values from controls were lowest for samples preserved on ice, intermediate for those preserved with salt, and highest with ethanol. Within species, both salt and ethanol significantly enriched the \u03b415N values in nearly all comparisons. Ethanol also had strong effects on the \u03b413C values in all three groupers. Conversely, for samples preserved on ice, we did not detect a significant offset in either isotopic ratio for any of the focal species. Previous studies have addressed preservation-induced offsets in isotope values using a mass balance correction that accounts for changes in the isotope value to that in the C/N ratio. We tested the application of standard mass balance corrections for isotope values that were significantly affected by the preservation methods and found generally poor agreement between corrected and control values. The poor performance by the correction may have been due to preferential loss of lighter isotopes and corresponding low levels of mass loss with a substantial change in the isotope value of the sample. Regardless of mechanism, it was evident that accounting for offsets caused by different preservation methods was not possible using the standard correction. Caution is warranted when interpreting the results from specimens stored in either ethanol or salt, especially when using those from multiple preservation techniques. We suggest the use of ice as the preferred preservation technique for muscle tissue when conducting stable isotope analysis as it is widely available, inexpensive, easy to transport and did not impart a significant offset in measured isotopic values. Our results provide additional evidence that preservation effects on stable isotope analysis can be highly contextual, thus requiring their effects to be measured and understood for each species and isotopic ratio of interest before addressing research questions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/752/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'College of Marine Science, University of South Florida', u'Ecosystems Center, Marine Biological Laboratory', u'Fish and Wildlife Research Institute, Florida Fish and Wildlife Conservation Commission']]
[u'The effect of the spatial repellent metofluthrin on landing rates of outdoor biting anophelines in Cambodia, S.E. Asia', ['Jacques Derek D Charlwood', 'Nep Nenhep', 'Natacha Protopopoff', 'Sovannaroth Siv', 'John C Morgan', 'Janet Hemingway'], u'2014-12-21', u'Without controlling outdoor transmission, the goal of elimination of malaria is unlikely to be reached. This is particularly the case in places like Cambodia where people spend considerable amounts of time away from houses at night. Metofluthrin is a synthetic pyrethroid insecticide with a high vapor action at ambient temperatures and has been developed as a long lasting insect repellent device that works without the need to apply heat. Emanators of 10% of metofluthrin were therefore tested in landing collections against potential malaria vectors from three areas of the country (Pailin, Pursat and Koh Kong). One to four emanators were hung on wire 1m off the ground on one or four sides of a square 1.5m from collectors. Collections were also undertaken with Furvela tent-traps. 2086 hrs of landing collection were undertaken in Pailin, 528hrs in Veal Veng and 320 in Kroh Salau. Rate ratios were used to determine the significance of the difference between collections. The principal anophelines collected varied between locations. Anopheles minimus s.l. was the most common mosquito in Pailin, An. maculatus s.l in Veal Veng and An. sinensis in Kroh Salau. Among all species collected in Pailin landing rates were reduced by 50% (95% CI 55-44%) when a single emanator was used and by 58% (95% CI 63- 52%) when four were used. The effect was greater in An.minimus s.l 51% ( 95% CI 54-47%) and 70% (72%-66%) respectively. A similar result was obtained in Pursat, where 67% (95% CI 66- 42%) reductions were observed when four emanators were in use, but no significant reduction was observed in Koh Kong. Although the results show promise it is argued that the product needs further development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/751/', ['Biotechnology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Epidemiology'], [u'Department of Entomology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine,', u'Centro Nacional de Malaria', u'Department of Disease Control, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine', u'Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine']]
[u'Enterococci levels in the Bronx River during dry and wet weather conditions', ['Maria Leanna Enecio', 'Nir Y. Krakauer'], u'2014-12-20', u'The purpose of this project was to understand fecal microorganism contamination in the Bronx River within New York City and how it is affected by combined sewer overflow (CSO) events. Nine sites along the Bronx River were sampled throughout the summer of 2014 during wet and dry weather conditions. The samples were analyzed for enterococcus fecal indicator bacteria (FIB) concentration. The data revealed that wet weather enterococci concentrations are as 3 to 28 times greater than dry weather concentrations. The highest enterococci concentrations were found where the river enters Bronx County from Westchester County and near a storm water outfall. The positive correlation shown between the amount of rainfall and the FIB concentrations verifies that CSO and storm water discharges are a major source of FIB contamination in the river.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/750/', ['Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Earth System Science and Environmental Engineering, Grove School of Engineering, City College of the City University of New York', u'Department of Civil Engineering, Grove School of Engineering, City College of the City University of New York']]
[u'Preliminary needs assessment of mobile technology use for healthcare among homeless veterans', ['D Keith McInnes', 'Gemmae M Fix', 'Jeffrey L Solomon', 'Beth Ann Petrakis', 'Leon Sawh', 'David A Smelson'], u'2014-12-20', u'BACKGROUND: Homeless veterans have complex healthcare needs, but experience many barriers to treatment engagement. While information technologies (IT), especially mobile phones, are used to engage patients in care, little is known about homeless veterans\u2019 IT use. This study examines homeless veterans\u2019 access to and use of IT, attitudes toward health-related IT use, and barriers to IT in the context of homelessness.\nMETHODS: Qualitative interviews were conducted with 30 homeless veterans in different housing programs in Boston, MA. Inductive thematic analysis was used.\nRESULTS: Most participants (90%) had a mobile phone and were receptive to IT use for health-related communications. A common difficulty communicating with providers was the lack of a stable mailing address. Some participants were using mobile phones to stay in touch with providers. Participants felt mobile-phone calls or text messages could be used to remind patients of appointments, prescription refills, medication taking, and returning for laboratory results. Mobile phone text messaging was seen as convenient, helped participants stay organized because necessary information was saved in text messages. Some reported concerns about the costs associated with mobile phone use (calls and texting), the potential to be annoyed by too many text messages, and not knowing how to use text messaging.\nCONCLUSION: Homeless veterans use IT and welcome its use for health-related purposes. Technology-assisted outreach among this population may lead to improved engagement in care.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/749/', ['Public Health', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Center for Healthcare Organization and Implementation Research, Department of Veterans Affairs Edith Nourse Rogers VA Hospital', u'Department of Health Policy and Management, Boston University School of Public Health', u'National Center on Homelessness among Veterans, Department of Veterans Affairs', u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Massachusetts Medical School', u'School of Criminology and Justice Studies, University of Massachusetts']]
[u'HaloTag is an effective expression and solubilisation fusion partner for a range of fibroblast growth factors', ['Changye Sun', 'Yong Li', 'Sarah E Taylor', 'Xianqing Mao', 'Mark C Wilkinson', 'David G Fernig'], u'2014-12-20', u'The production of recombinant proteins such as the fibroblast growth factors (FGFs) is the key to establishing their function in cell communication. The production of recombinant FGFs in E. coli is limited, however, due to expression and solubility problems. HaloTag has been used as a fusion protein to introduce a genetically-encoded means for chemical conjugation of probes. We have expressed 11 FGF proteins with an N-terminal HaloTag, followed by a tobacco etch virus (TEV) protease cleavage site to allow release of the FGF protein. These were purified by heparin-affinity chromatography, and in some instances by further ion-exchange chromatography. It was found that HaloTag did not adversely affect the expression of FGF1 and FGF10, both of which expressed well as soluble proteins. The N-terminal HaloTag fusion was found to enhance the expression and yield of FGF2, FGF3 and FGF7. Moreover, whereas FGF6, FGF8, FGF16, FGF17, FGF20 and FGF22 were only expressed as insoluble proteins, their N-terminal HaloTag fusion counterparts (Halo-FGFs) were soluble, and could be successfully purified. However, cleavage of Halo-FGF6, -FGF8 and -FGF22 with TEV resulted in aggregation of the FGF protein. Thus, HaloTag provides a means to enhance the expression of soluble recombinant proteins, in addition to providing a chemical genetics route for covalent tagging of proteins.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/743/', ['Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool', u'Laboratory of Cellular and Molecular Oncology, Centre de Recherche Public de la Sant\xe9 (CRP-Sant\xe9)']]
[u'Health care workers\u2019 perspectives about disclosure to HIV-infected children; Cross-sectional survey of health facilities in Gauteng and Mpumalanga provinces, South Africa', ['Sphiwe Madiba', 'Mathildah Mokgatle'], u'2014-12-20', u'The perspectives and practices of health care workers (HCWs) regarding disclosure to HIV-infected children have not been adequately investigated ten years after the roll-out of pediatrics antiretroviral therapy (ART). The aim of the study was to examine the opinions of HCWs about disclosure to HIV-infected children and determine their role in disclosure to children accessing ART in centers in South Africa. This was a cross-sectional survey using a semi-structured questionnaire among HCWs in ART centers at three hospitals and 48 primary health facilities in two provinces in South Africa. Of the 206 HCWs, 140 (68.2%) were nurses, 44 (21.5%) were lay counsellors, and 4 (2%) were doctors. The majority (n=183, 89.3%) felt that disclosure benefits children and they should be told about their HIV status. Over half (n=93, 51.4%) recommended 11-18 years as the appropriate age to disclose. Half (n= 99, 48.5%) said that caregivers should take the lead to disclose, 87 (42.7%) said that disclosure is a shared responsibility of caregivers and HCWs, and 18 (8.8%) said HCWs should lead disclosure. HCWs perceived their role as that of preparing the caregiver for disclosure and the child to understand the disease. However, the lack of guidelines and training on disclosure counselling for children affects their ability to fully participate in disclosure to children. There is a need to adopt t he World Health Organizations\u2019 disclosure guidelines for children and adapt them to the local cultural and community contexts and train HCWs to guide, support, and assist caregivers in their disclosure to HIV-infected children.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/748/', ['Global Health', 'HIV', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'School of Public Health, Department of Environmental and Occupational Heath, University of Limpopo', u'School of Public Health, Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Limpopo']]
[u'NxRepair: Error correction in de novo sequence assembly using Nextera mate pairs', ['Rebecca R Murphy', "Jared M O'Connell", 'Anthony J Cox', 'Ole B Schulz-Trieglaff'], u'2014-12-20', u'Scaffolding errors and incorrect traversals of the de Bruijn graph during de novo assembly can result in large scale misassemblies in draft genomes. Nextera mate pair sequencing data provide additional information to resolve assembly ambiguities during scaffolding. Here, we introduce NxRepair, an open source toolkit for error correction in de novo assemblies that uses Nextera mate pair libraries to identify and correct large-scale errors. We show that NxRepair can identify and correct large scaffolding errors, without use of a reference sequence, resulting in quantitative improvements in the assembly quality. NxRepair can be downloaded from GitHub; a tutorial and user documentation are also available.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/747/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge', u'Illumina Cambridge, Chesterford Research Park']]
[u'Found in transition: Applying milestones to three unique discharge curricula', ['Lauren Meade', 'Christine Y Todd', 'Meghan M Walsh'], u'2014-12-20', u'Introduction: A safe and effective transition from hospital to post acute care is a complex and important physician competency. Milestones and Entrustable Professional Activities (EPA) form the new educational rubric in Graduate Medical Education Training. \u2018A safe and effective discharge from the hospital\u2019 is an EPA ripe for educational innovation. Methods: The authors collaborated in a qualitative process called, mapping, to develop a Q-sort exercise to be distributed to participants at an Association for Program Directors in Internal Medicine (APDIM) workshop on milestones for transition of care. We analyzed the Q-sort results to rank the milestones in order of priority. We then applied this ranking to 3 innovative transitions of care curricula: Simulation (S), Discharge Clinic Feedback (DCF) and TRACER (T). Results: We collected 55 game boards from faculty units at the APDIM workshop. We report the prioritized milestones by Q-sort from the APDIM workshop. From the total 22 milestones, the simulation innovation identified 5/22 milestones, discharge clinic 9/22 milestones and tracer 7/22 milestones related to the EPA. Milestones identified in each innovation related back to one of the top eight prioritized milestones 75% of the time; thus more frequently than the milestones with lower priority. Discussion: We demonstrated that three unique innovations in transitions of care map to the top prioritized Q-sort milestones related to that EPA. Milestones for competency based assessment can be used to guide the development of innovative curricula in transition of care medicine.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/746/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Internal Medicine, Baystate Tufts Medical Center', u'Chair, Department of Medical Humanities, Southern Illinois University School of Medicine', u'Chief Medical Education Officer, Hennepin County Medical Center']]
[u'Patient exposure in the basic science classroom enhances differential diagnosis formation and clinical decision-making', ['Justin G. Peacock', 'Joseph P. Grande'], u'2014-12-20', u'Purpose: The authors proposed that introducing real patients into a pathology classroom early in medical education would help integrate fundamental principles and disease pathology with clinical presentation and medical history. Methods: Three patients with different pathologies described their history and presentation without revealing their diagnosis. Students were required to submit a differential diagnosis in writing, and then they were able to ask questions to arrive at the correct diagnosis. Students were surveyed on the efficacy of patient-based learning. Results: Average student scores on the differential diagnosis assignments significantly improved 32% during the course. From the survey, 72% of students felt that patient encounters should be included in the pathology course next year. 74% felt that the differential diagnosis assignments helped them develop clinical decision-making skills. 73% felt that the experience helped them know what questions to ask patients. 86% felt that they obtained a better understanding of patients\u2019 social and emotional challenges. Discussion: Having students work through the process of differential diagnosis formulation when encountering a real patient and their clinical presentation improved clinical decision-making skills and integrated fundamental concepts with disease pathology during a basic science pathology course. o', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/744/', ['Pathology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Graduate Medical Education, San Antonio Uniformed Services Health Education Consortium', u'Department of Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic College of Medicine']]
[u'Organization and distribution of glomeruli in the bowhead whale olfactory bulb', ['Takushi Kishida', 'J. G. M. Thewissen', 'Sharon Usip', 'John C George', 'Robert S Suydam'], u'2014-12-20', u'Although modern baleen whales still possess a functional olfactory systems that includes olfactory bulbs, cranial nerve I and olfactory receptor genes, their olfactory capabilities have been reduced profoundly. This is probably in response to their fully aquatic lifestyle. The glomeruli that occur in the olfactory bulb can be divided into two non-overlapping domains, a dorsal domain and a ventral domain. Recent molecular studies revealed that all modern whales have lost olfactory receptor genes and marker genes that are specific to the dorsal domain, and that a modern baleen whale possess only 60 olfactory receptor genes. Here we show that olfactory bulb of bowhead whales (Balaena mysticetus, Mysticeti) lacks glomeruli on the dorsal side, consistent with the molecular data. In addition, we estimate that there are more than 4,000 glomeruli in the bowhead whale olfactory bulb. Olfactory sensory neurons that express the same olfactory receptor in mice generally project to two specific glomeruli in an olfactory bulb, meaning that ratio of the number of olfactory receptors : the number of glomeruli is approximately 1:2. However, we show here that this ratio is not applicable to whales, indicating the limitation of mice as model organisms for understanding the initial coding of odor information among mammals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/740/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Neuroscience', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Histology'], [u'Wildlife Research Center, Kyoto University', u'Department of Anatomy and Neurobiology, Northeast Ohio Medical University', u'Department of Wildlife Management, North Slope Borough']]
[u'Low cost audiovisual playback and recording triggered by radio frequency identification using Raspberry Pi', ['Adam Z Lendvai', 'Caglar Akcay', 'Talia Weiss', 'Mark F. Haussmann', 'Ignacio T Moore', 'Frances Bonier'], u'2014-12-20', u'Carrying out playbacks of visual or audio stimuli to wild animals is a widely used experimental tool in behavioral ecology. In many cases, however, playback experiments are constrained by observer limitations such as the time observers can be present, or the accuracy of observation. These problems are particularly apparent when playbacks are triggered by specific events or are targeted to specific individuals. We developed a low-cost automated playback/recording system, using two field-deployable devices: radio-frequency identification (RFID) readers and Raspberry Pi micro-computers. This system detects a specific passive integrated transponder (PIT) tag attached to an individual, and subsequently plays back the stimuli, or records audio or visual information. To demonstrate the utility of this system, we tagged female and male tree swallows from two box-nesting populations with PIT tags and carried out playbacks of nestling begging calls every time females entered the nestbox over a six-hour period. We show that the RFID-Raspberry Pi system presents a versatile, low-cost, field-deployable system that can be adapted for many audio and visual playback purposes. The low cost and the small learning curve make this set-up a feasible system for use by field biologists.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/742/', ['Animal Behavior'], [u'Department of Evolutionary Zoology, University of Debrecen', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Tech', u'Department of Biomedical Engineering and Mechanics, Virginia Tech', u'Department of Biology, Bucknell University', u'Department of Biology, Queen\u2019s University']]
[u'Long live the wasp: adult longevity in captive colonies of the eusocial paper wasp Polistes canadensis (L.)', ['Robin J Southon', 'Emily F Bell', 'Peter Graystock', 'Seirian Sumner'], u'2014-12-19', u'Insects have been used as an exemplary model in studying longevity, from extrinsic mortality pressures to intrinsic senescence. In the highly eusocial insects great degrees of variation in lifespan exist between morphological castes in relation to extreme divisions of labour, but of particular interest is the primitively eusocial orders. These species represent the ancestral beginnings of eusociality, in which castes are flexible and based on behaviour rather than morphology. Here we present data on the longevity of the primitively eusocial Neotropical paper wasp Polistes canadensis, in a captive setting removed of all environmental hazards. In comparison to other eusocial wasps\u2019 P. canadensis had an average lifespan of 193\xb110.5 days, with one individual living longer than 450 days. Although this is shorter than most highly eusocial bee and ant queens. Natal colony variation does exist between P. canadensis colonies, possibly due to nutritional and genetic factors. This study provides a foundation for future investigations on the effects of intrinsic and extrinsic factors on longevity in primitively eusocial insects, as well as the relationship with caste and genome.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/739/', ['Entomology'], [u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol', u'Institute of Zoology, Zoological Society of London']]
[u'Synthetic neuronal datasets for benchmarking directed connectivity metrics', ['Joao Rodrigues', 'Alexandre Andrade'], u'2014-12-19', u'Background: Datasets consisting of synthetic neural data generated with quantifiable and controlled parameters are a valuable asset in the process of testing and validating directed connectivity metrics. Considering the recent debate in the neuroimaging community concerning the use of directed functional connectivity metrics for fMRI data, synthetic datasets that emulate BOLD dynamics have played a central role by supporting claims that argue in favor, or against, certain metrics. Generative models often used in studies that simulate neuronal activity, with the aim of gaining insight into specific brain regions and functions, have different requirements from the generative models for benchmarking datasets. Even though the latter must be realistic, there is a tradeoff between realism and computational demand that needs to be contemplated and simulations that efficiently mimic the real behavior of single neurons or neuronal populations are preferred, instead of more cumbersome and marginally precise ones. Methods: this work explores how simple generative models are able to produce neuronal datasets, for benchmarking purposes, that reflect the simulated effective connectivity and, how these can be used to obtain synthetic recordings of EEG and fMRI BOLD. The generative models covered here are AR processes, neural mass models consisting of linear and non-linear stochastic differential equations and populations with thousands of spiking units. Forward models for EEG consist in the simple three-shell head model while fMRI BOLD is modeled with the Balloon-Windkessel model or by convolution with a hemodynamic response function. Results: the simulated datasets are tested for causality with the original spectral formulation for Granger causality. Modeled effective connectivity can be detected in the generated data for varying connection strengths and interaction delays. Discussion: all generative models produce synthetic neuronal data with detectable causal effects although the relation between modeled and detected causality varies and less biophysically realistic models offer more control in causal relations such as modeled strength and frequency location.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/737/', ['Biophysics', 'Neuroscience', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Biophysics and Biomedical Engineering, University of Lisbon']]
[u'Proteomic responses to hypoxia at different temperatures in the Great Scallop (Pecten maximus)', ['Sebastien SA Artigaud', 'Camille CL Lacroix', 'Joelle JR Richard', 'Jonathan Flye-Sainte-Marie', 'Luca LB Bargelloni', 'Vianney Pichereau'], u'2014-12-19', u'Hypoxia and hyperthermia are two connected consequences of the ongoing global change that constitute major threats for coastal marine organisms. In the present study, we used a proteomic approach to characterize the changes induced by hypoxia in individuals of the great scallop, Pecten maximus, subjected to three different temperatures, i.e. 10\xb0C, 18\xb0C and 25\xb0C. We did not observe any significant change induced by hypoxia in animals acclimated at 10\xb0C. Contrastingly at 18\xb0C and 25\xb0C, 16 and 11 protein spots were differentially accumulated between normoxia and hypoxia, respectively. Moreover, biochemical data, i.e. octopine dehydrogenase activity and arginine assays suggests that animals grown at 25\xb0C switched their metabolism towards anaerobic metabolism when exposed to either normoxia or hypoxia, suggesting that this temperature is out of the scallops\u2019 optimal thermal window. In all, 11 proteins could be unambiguously identified by mass spectrometry, involved in protein modifications and signaling (e.g. CK2, TBK1), metabolism (e.g. ENO3) or cytoskeleton (GSN). The potential roles of these proteins in the thermal-dependent response of scallops to hypoxia are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/736/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Laboratoire des Sciences de l\u2019Environnement Marin, LEMAR UMR 6539 CNRS/UBO/IRD/Ifremer, Universit\xe9 de Bretagne Occidentale, Institut Universitaire Europ\xe9en de la Mer', u'Department of Comparative Biomedicine and Food Science, University of Padova']]
[u'Capsules of the diatom Achnanthidium minutissimum arise from fibrillar precursors and foster attachment of bacteria', ['Katrin Leinweber', 'Peter G Kroth'], u'2014-12-19', u'Achnanthidium minutissimum is a benthic diatom that may form biofilms on submerged, aquatic surfaces. Within these biofilms, A. minutissimum cells produce extracellular structures which facilitate substrate adhesion, such as stalks and capsules. Both consist of extracellular polymeric substance (EPS), but the microstructure and development stages of the capsules are so far unknown, despite a number of hypotheses about their function, inlcuding attachment and protection. We coupled scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to bright-field microscopy (BFM) and found that A. minutissimum capsules mostly possess an unstructured surface. However, capsule material that was mechanically stressed by being stretched between or around cells displayed fibrillar substructures. Fibrils were also found on the frustules of non-encapsulated cells, implicating that A. minutissimum capsules may develop from fibrillar precursors. Energy-dispersive X-ray (EDX) spectroscopy revealed that the capsule material contains little to no silicon, suggesting that the capsule does not arise from the cell wall. We furthermore show that bacteria attach preferentially to capsules, instead of non-encapsulated A. minutissimum cells, which supports the idea that capsules mediate diatom-bacteria interactions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/735/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Biology, Universit\xe4t of Konstanz']]
[u'Sequence composition diversity in Alaskan glacier and other metagenomes', ['Sulbha Choudhari', 'Roman J Dial', 'Dibyendu Kumar', 'Daniel H Shain', 'Andrey Grigoriev'], u'2014-12-19', u'Metagenomics by next generation sequencing has become an important tool for interrogating complex microbial communities. In this study we analyzed several pairs of metagenomic samples obtained by different methods and observed biases, resulting in different nucleotide composition of the sequenced reads. The pairwise sample comparison was based on the principal component analysis of dinucleotide word frequencies in sequences obtained from different platforms. We found bias in the sequences obtained from the different platforms for the amplified hypervariable regions in 16S rRNA but not in shotgun metagenome reads aligned to such hypervariable regions. The differences and consistency of the distributions of the nucleotides suggest that the biases are likely due to a combination of biases introduced by PCR and different sequencing protocols, and they are related to the GC content of the reads produced. For this reason, caution should be exercised when interpreting the results of comparative metagenomics studies, as they may vary depending on the sequencing technology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/734/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Center for Computational and Integrative Biology, Rutgers University', u'Department of Environmental Science, Alaska Pacific University', u'Waksman Genomics Core Facility, Rutgers University']]
[u'Beliefs in being unlucky and deficits in executive functioning: An ERP study', ['Jaime Martin del Campo', 'John Maltby', 'Giorgio Fuggetta'], u'2014-12-19', u'The present study tested the Dysexecutive Luck hypothesis by examining whether deficits in the early stage of top down attentional control led to an increase of neural activity in later stages of response related selection process among those who thought themselves to be unlucky. Individuals with these beliefs were compared to a control group using an Event-Related Potential (ERP) measure assessing underlying neural activity of semantic inhibition while completing a Stroop test. Results showed stronger main interference effects in the former group, via greater reaction times and a more negative distributed scalp late ERP component during incongruent trials in the time window of 450 \u2013 780 ms post stimulus onset. Further, less efficient maintenance of task set among the former group was associated with greater late ERP response-related activation to compensate for the lack of top-down attentional control. These findings provide electrophysiological evidence to support the Dysexecutive Luck hypothesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/733/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'College of Medicine, Biological Sciences and Psychology, University of Leicester']]
[u'Neutering of cats and dogs in Ireland; pet owner self-reported perceptions of enabling and disabling factors in the decision to neuter', ['Martin J Downes', 'Marie T Downes', 'Catherine Devitt', 'Simon J More'], u'2014-12-19', u'Background: Failure among pet owners to neuter their pets results in increased straying and overpopulation problems. Variations in neutering levels can be explained by cultural differences, differences in economic status in rural and urban locations, and owner perceptions about their pet. There are also differences between male and female pet owners. There is no research pertaining to Irish pet owner attitudes towards neutering their pets. This paper identified the perceptions of Irish cat and dog owners that influenced their decisions on pet neutering. Results: Focus groups were conducted with 43 pet (cats and dogs) owners. Two major categories relating to the decision to neuter were identified: (1) enabling perceptions in the decision to neuter (subcategories were: controlling unwanted pet behaviour; positive perceptions regarding pet health and welfare outcomes; perceived owner responsibility; pet function; and the influence of veterinary advice), and (2) disabling perceptions in the decision to neuter (subcategories were: perceived financial cost of neutering; perceived adequacy of existing controls; and negative perceptions regarding pet health and welfare outcomes). Conclusions: Pet owner sense of responsibility and control are two central issues. Understanding how pet owners feel about topics such as pet neutering, can help improve initiatives aimed at emphasising the responsibility of population control of cats and dogs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/731/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Centre for Applied Health Economics, Griffith Health Institute', u'Centre for Veterinary Epidemiology and Risk Analysis, School of Veterinary Medicine', u'Greencross Vets, Greencross Vets', u'Consultant Social Science Research Professional, Glendalough']]
[u'Estimating relative risk of within-lake aquatic plant invasion using combined measures of recreational boater movement and habitat suitability', ['Marion E Wittmann', 'Bruce E Kendall', 'Christopher L Jerde', 'Lars W. J. Anderson'], u'2014-12-19', u'Effective monitoring, prevention and impact mitigation of nonindigenous aquatic species (NAS) relies upon the ability to predict dispersal pathways and receiving habitats with the greatest risk of establishment. To examine mechanisms affecting species establishment within a large lake, we combined observations of recreational boater movements with empirical measurements of habitat suitability represented by nearshore wave energy to assess the relative risk (RR) of Eurasian watermilfoil (Myriophyllum spicatum) establishment. The model was evaluated using information from a 17 year (1995-2012) sequence of M. spicatum presence and absence monitoring. M. spicatum presence was not specifically correlated with recreational boater movements; however its establishment appears to be limited by wave action in Lake Tahoe. Of the sites in the "High" risk category (n=37), 54% had current or historical infestations, which included 8 of the 10 sites with the highest RR. Of the 11 sites in the "Medium" risk category, 5 had current or historical M. spicatum populations. Most (76%) of the sites in the "Low" risk category were observed in locations with higher wave action. Four sites that received zero boater visits from infested locations were occupied by M. spicatum. This suggests that the boater survey either represents incomplete coverage of boater movement, or other processes, such as the movement of propagules by surface currents or introductions from external sources are important to the establishment of this species. This study showed the combination of habitat specific and dispersal data in a relative risk framework can potentially reduce uncertainty in estimates of invasion risk.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/730/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Nevada', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Notre Dame', u'Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, University of California', u'Waterweed Solutions']]
[u'Recent mobility of plastid encoded group II introns and twintrons in five strains of the unicellular red alga Porphyridium', ['Marie-Mathilde Perrineau', 'Dana C Price', 'Georg Mohr', 'Debashish Bhattacharya'], u'2014-12-19', u'Group II introns are closely linked to eukaryote evolution because nuclear spliceosomal introns and the small RNAs associated with the spliceosome are thought to trace their ancient origins to these mobile elements. Therefore, elucidating how group II introns move, and how they lose mobility can potentially shed light on fundamental aspects of eukaryote biology. To this end, we studied five strains of the unicellular red alga Porphyridium purpureum that surprisingly contain 42 group II introns in their plastid genomes. We focused on a subset of these introns that encode mobility-conferring intron-encoded proteins (IEPs) and found them to be distributed among the strains in a lineage-specific manner. The reverse transcriptase and maturase domains were present in all lineages but the DNA endonuclease domain was deleted in vertically inherited introns, demonstrating a key step in the loss of mobility. P. purpureum plastid intron RNAs had a classic group IIB secondary structure despite variability in the DIII and DVI domains. We report for the first time the presence of twintrons (introns-within-introns, derived from the same mobile element) in Rhodophyta. The P. purpureum IEPs and their mobile introns provide a valuable model for the study of mobile retroelements in eukaryotes and offer promise for biotechnological applications.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/729/', ['Cell Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Ecology, Evolution and Natural Resources, Rutgers University', u'Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, University of Texas at Austin', u'Department of Marine and Coastal Sciences, Rutgers University']]
[u'Phosphoproteins with stability against all urinary phosphatases as potential biomarkers', ['Mindi Zhao', 'Kehui Liu', 'Youhe Gao'], u'2014-12-19', u'Urine, by accumulating all kinds of changes, was proposed to be a better source for biomarker discovery. As one of the most common post-translational modifications, phosphorylation plays a vital role in many biological activities. However, the urine phosphoproteome has been largely neglected due to the low abundance of phosphoproteins and the presence of various phosphatases in urine. The low level of background phosphorylation in urine is actually advantageous, as urinary phosphopeptides/proteins that are stable to the phosphatases present in urine have the potential to serve as valuable disease biomarkers. Using a TiO2 enrichment strategy, this study aimed to create a comprehensive proteomic profile of human urinary phosphoproteins and to characterize the changes in the urine phosphoproteome after incubation of urine with cell lysates. In total, 106 urine phosphorylation sites corresponding to 64 proteins, including 80 previously unidentified human urine protein phosphorylation sites, were identified by mass spectrometry. Fifteen phosphopeptides, together averaging 47% of the total phosphopeptides, were found in samples from three individuals. Addition of cellular proteins to urine did not significantly change the phosphorylation level of urine proteins. But there were still a few phosphopeptides from cell lysates survived urinary phosphatases; such phosphopeptides represent potential biomarkers in urine.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/728/', ['Biochemistry'], [u'National Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Department of Pathophysiology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, School of Basic Medicine Peking Union Medical College', u'State Key Laboratory of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Gene Engineering and Biotechnology Beijing Key Laboratory, Beijing Normal University']]
[u'Extreme leg action and hip-joint dynamics in wild primates', ['Derek S Madden', 'Erinn H. Madden', 'Sierra L. Madden'], u'2014-12-19', u'We measure how leg actions of cadaver monkeys are transferred within the hip-joint, and we compare physical femoral mobility of wild and captive monkeys in Panama, Costa Rica, and in zoological parks of California. We acquire leg movement data of howler, capuchin and spider monkeys with random 1 second digital photography during 4 months in Central America, and weekly visits for 2 months in California zoos (n=47 wild primates, 1879 focal events; 24 captive primates, 959 focal events). We employ computer software to objectively assess leg angle in regards to flexion, neutral and extension postures of the femur, relative to the hip socket. We apply leg action data to cadaver pelvises in primate bone collections at University of California, Davis, University of Oregon Osteology Lab, and the Denver Museum. Our study reveals that extreme femoral action translates as high diversity of articular contacts within the primate hip joint, and that captive monkeys in artificial habitats have less femoral movements than wild monkeys, with statistical comparisons being: Full leg flexion P = 0.0012; Flexion P = 0.023; Ambulatory as in walking P = 0.075; Extension P = 0.002; and Full extension with leg in line with body P = 0.00011. We speculate that the primate body is built to move in extreme but non-traumatic, wide-ranging appendicular actions. Such movements may help to simulate peripheral articular cartilage, contributing to the longevity of joints, and perhaps extending the life of primates who move in this manner.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/727/', ['Anthropology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Geriatrics'], [u'Department of Biology, Modesto Junior College', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute', u'Department of Biology, University of California']]
[u'Bioemulsifying potential of exopolysaccharide produced by an indigenous species of Aureobasidium pullulans RYLF10', ['Kanchanlata Lata Yadav', 'Deepak Kumar Rahi', 'Sanjeev Kumar Soni'], u'2014-12-19', u'In this study, the bioemulsifying potential of exopolysaccharide produced by an indigenous species of Aureobasidium pullulans RYLF10 has been determined and various factors affecting the emulsification activity has been evaluated. The emulsification activity was determined with 8 different vegetable oils (olive, soybean, sesame, sunflower, coconut, mustard, groundnut and almond oil) which are mainly used for various food purposes. The result obtained revealed the emulsification activity (%EA) of the test EPS was quite fair with all the vegetable oils used in the study. However, it was found maximum (56%) with olive oil at the concentration of 1.5% and was very much comparable with the emulsification activity of gum Arabic, the standard emulsifier. Therefore, the olive oil was used for studies related to various factors affecting the emulsification activity of the test emulsifier. The emulsion formed was found to be oil in water (o/w) type which possessed remarkable temperature, pH and salt for 24 hours. Droplet size analysis of the test emulsifier revealed to possess monomodal type of size distribution with droplet size of 105 \xb5m which was responsible for stabilizing the emulsion. The result obtained suggest that the emulsion of the test EPS with olive oil can potentially be used in various food applications where olive oil is used.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/726/', ['Biotechnology', 'Mycology'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Panjab University']]
[u'A specimen of Paralycoptera Chang & Chou 1977 (Teleostei: Osteoglossoidei) from Hong Kong (China) with a potential Late Jurassic age that extends the temporal and geographical range of the genus', ['Tze-Kei Tse', 'Michael Pittman', 'Meemann Chang'], u'2014-12-18', u'We identify an osteoglossoid teleost fish - Paralycoptera - from Late Jurassic volcaniclastic mudstones from the Lai Chi Chong Formation of Hong Kong, China. This partially preserved postcranial skeleton represents the first Mesozoic fish from Hong Kong and the most southerly Paralycoptera to date. A radiometric date for the Lai Chi Chong Formation of ~146 Ma implies a temporal range expansion for Paralycoptera of approximately 40 million years back from the Early Cretaceous (~110Ma). However, spores found in the Formation suggest an Early Cretaceous age that is consistent with the existing age assignment to Paralycoptera. We argue that the proposed temporal range extension is genuine because it is based on recent precise and accurate radiometric data, but given the discrepancies with the biostratigraphic ages further investigation is needed to confirm this. This study provides an important step towards revealing Hong Kong\u2019s Mesozoic vertebrate fauna and understanding its relationship to well-studied mainland Chinese ones.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/725/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Vertebrate Palaeontology Laboratory, Department of Earth Sciences, The University of Hong Kong', u'Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origin of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology & Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Body image, visual working memory and visual mental imagery', ['Stephen Darling', 'Clare Uytman', 'Richard J Allen', 'Jelena Havelka', 'David G Pearson'], u'2014-12-18', u'Body dissatisfaction (BD) is a highly prevalent feature amongst females in society, with the majority of individuals regarding themselves to be overweight compared to their personal ideal, and very few self-describing as underweight. To date, explanations of this dramatic pattern have centred on extrinsic social and media factors, or intrinsic factors connected to individuals\u2019 knowledge and belief structures regarding eating and body shape, with little research examining links between BD and basic cognitive mechanisms. This paper reports a correlational study in which visual and executive cognitive processes that could potentially impact on BD were assessed. Visual memory span and self-rated visual imagery were found to be predictive of BD, alongside a measure of inhibition derived from the Stroop task. In contrast, spatial memory and global precedence were not related to BD. Results are interpreted with reference to the influential multi-component model of working memory.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/724/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Division of Psychology and Sociology, Queen Margaret University', u'School of Psychology, University of Leeds', u'School of Psychology, University of Aberdeen']]
[u'Natal host plants can alter herbivore competition', ['Huipeng Pan', 'Evan Preisser', 'Qi Su', 'Xiaoguo Jiao', 'Wen Xie', 'Shaoli Wang', 'Qingjun Wu', 'Youjun Zhang'], u'2014-12-18', u'Interspecific competition between herbivores is widely recognized as an important determinant of community structure. Although researchers have identified a number of factors capable of altering competitive interactions, few studies have addressed the influence of neighboring plant species. If adaptation to/ epigenetic effects of an herbivore\u2019s natal host plant alter its performance on other host plants, then interspecific herbivore interactions may play out differently in heterogeneous and homogenous plant communities. We tested the impact of natal host plants on interactions between the Middle-east Asia Minor 1 (MEAM1) and Mediterranean (MED) cryptic species of the whitefly Bemisia tabaci by rearing the offspring of a cabbage-derived MEAM1 population and a poinsettia-derived MED population together on three different host plants: cotton, poinsettia, and cabbage. We found that MED excluded MEAM1 on poinsettia and that MEAM1 excluded MED on cabbage, results consistent with previous research. MED also excluded MEAM1 when reared together on cotton, however, a result at odds with multiple otherwise-similar studies that reared both species on the same natal plant. Our work provides evidence that natal plants affect competitive interactions on another plant species, and highlights the potential importance of neighboring plant species on herbivore community composition.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/723/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Plant Protection, Institute of Vegetables and Flowers, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences', u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Rhode Island', u'Department of Plant Protection, Institute of Vegetables and Flowers, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Beijing 100081, China']]
[u'Earthworm assemblages in different intensity of agricultural uses and their relation to edaphic variables', ['Liliana B Falco', 'Rosana V Sandler', 'Fernando R Momo', 'Cesar A Di Ciocco', 'Leonardo A Saravia', 'Carlos E Coviella'], u'2014-12-18', u'The objective of this study was to relate earthworm assemblage structure with three different soil use intensities, and to indentify the physical, chemical, and microbiological variables that are associated to the observed differences in earthworm assemblage structure between soils. Three soil uses were evaluated: 1- Fifty year old naturalized grasslands; 2- Cattle-grazing fields converted to feedlot within the two years before the start of this work, and 3- Fifty year old intensive agricultural fields. Three different sites for each soil use were evaluated from winter 2008 through summer 2011. Nine earthworm species were identified across all sampling sites. The sites shared five species: the native Microscolex dubius, and the introduced Aporrectodea caliginosa, A. rosea, Octalasion cyaneum, and O. lacteum, but they differed in their relative abundances according to the system. The results show that earthworm community structure is linked to and modulated by soil properties. Both, species abundance and diversity showed significant differences depending on soil use intensity. A PCA analysis showed that species composition is closely related to the environmental variability. The ratio of native to exotic species was significantly lower in the intensive agricultural system when compared to the other two, lower disturbance Systems. Microscolex dubius was shown to be related to the naturalized grasslands and it was associated to Ca, pH, Mechanical Resistance, and to respiration. Aporrectodea caliginosa was related to high K levels, low enzymatic activity, slightly low pH, and low Ca, and appeared related to the highly disturbed environment. Eukerria stagnalis and Aporrectodea rosea, commonly found un the cattle-grazing system, were related to high soil humidity, low pH, low Ca and low enzymatic activity. These results show that earthworm assamblages can be good descriptors of different soil use intensities. In particular, Microscolex dubius, Aporrectodea caliginosa, and Aporrectodea rosea, showed different temporal patterns and species associations, due to the changes in soil properties attributable tos oil use intensity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/722/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Departamento de Ciencias B\xe1sicas, Programa de Investigaciones en Ecolog\xeda Terrestre e INEDES, Universidad Nacional de Luj\xe1n', u'Instituto de Ciencias, Universidad Nacional de General Sarmiento']]
[u'The degree of change of collembolan community structure related to anthropic soil disturbance', ['Rosana V Sandler', 'Liliana B Falco', 'Cesar A Di Ciocco', 'Ricardo Castro-Huerta', 'Carlos E Coviella'], u'2014-12-18', u'Edaphic fauna play a crucial role in soil processes such as organic matter incorporation and cycling, nutrient content, soil structure, and stability. Collembolans in particular, play a very significant role in nutrient cycling and soil structure. The structure and functioning of the soil fauna can in turn be affected by soil use, leading to changes in soil characteristics and its sustainability. Therefore, the responses of soil fauna to different soil management practices, can be used as ecological indicators. Three different soil uses were researched: agricultural fields (AG) with 50 years of continuous farming, pastures entering the agricultural cycle (CG), and naturalized grasslands (NG). For each soil use, three fields were selected. Each sampling consisted of three soil samples per replicate. Collembolans were extracted from the samples and identified to family level. Five families were found: Hypogastruridae, Onychiuridae, Isotomidae, Entomobryidae, and Katiannidae. Soils were also characterized by means of physical and chemical analyses. The index of degree of change of diversity, was calculated. The results show that the biological index of degree of change can detect soil use effects on the collembolan community. Somewhat surprisingly the index showed that the diversity of collembolans is higher in the high anthropic impact site AG, followed by CG and being lower in lower impact sites, NG. The results also show that collembolan families respond differently to soil use. The families Hypogastruridae, Onychiuridae, and Isotomidae presented differences between systems. Therefore collembolan community structure can be a useful tool to assess agricultural practices\xb4 impacts on soil.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/721/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Entomology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Programa de Ecolog\xeda Terrestre, Departamento de Ciencias B\xe1sicas e Instituto de Ecolog\xeda y Desarrollo Sustentable, Universidad Nacional de Luj\xe1n']]
[u'Groundwater and river water interaction to solve water shortage: a case from Tasikmalaya, Indonesia', ['Dasapta E Irawan', 'Cut N Rachmi', 'Aditya Pratama', 'Gusti P Tulak', 'Achmad D Rochman'], u'2014-12-18', u'Water shortage is a common problem in the high density settlement along the riverbank of Ciromban and Cibeureum River, Tasikmalaya, as the quality of the water also decreases. One of the solution is to maximize the use of river water. This study aims to investigate the interaction between river and groundwater along the riverbank as a function of land use impact. A river water and unconfined groundwater level mapping has been conducted to make water flow map, assuming both waters are in the same flow system. Physical parameters, temperature, TDS, and pH were measured at each stations to understand water characteristics. Based on observations at 50 dug wells and 12 river stations on July-August 2014, a close interaction between both water bodies has been identified with two flow systems: effluent flow (or gaining stream) at Cibereum river segment and influent flow (losing stream) at Ciromban river segment. Physical parameters show a high correlation in temperature, pH, and TDS. Hence, further evaluation from health point of view should be taken before using river water as raw water supply in Tasikmalaya area.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/720/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Faculty of Earth Sciences and Technology, Institut Teknologi Bandung', u'Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, University of Sydney Clinical School, Children\u2019s Hospital at Westmead']]
[u'Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR): A flow-like mental state', ['Emma L Barratt', 'Nick J Davis'], u'2014-12-18', u'Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR) is a previously unstudied sensory phenomenon, in which individuals experience a tingling, static-like sensation across the scalp, back of the neck and at times further areas in response to specific triggering audio and visual stimuli. This sensation is widely reported to be accompanied by feelings of relaxation and wellbeing. The current study identifies several common triggers used to achieve ASMR, including whispering, personal attention, crisp sounds and slow movements. Data obtained also illustrates temporary improvements in symptoms of depression and chronic pain in those who engage in ASMR. A high prevalence of synaesthesia (5.9%) within the sample suggests a possible link between ASMR and synaesthesia, similar to that of misophonia. Links between number of effective triggers and heightened flow state suggest that flow may be necessary to achieve sensations associated with ASMR.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/719/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychology, Swansea University']]
[u'Comparing two models that reduce the number of nephrology fellowship positions in the United States', ['Tejas Desai'], u'2014-12-18', u'There has been a steady decline in the number of applications to nephrology training programs. One solution is to decrease the number of available fellowship positions. Proponents believe that training programs have grown too big but the method for reduction has not been established. This investigation analyzes two models that decrease the number of available training positions and compares them head-to-head to identify the least burdensome method by which this reduction should occur. In the survival of the fittest model (SotFM) fellowship positions are eliminated if they were unfilled in the National Residency Match Program\u2019s (NRMP) 2013 Specialty Match. In the equal proportions model (EPM) a formula is used to calculate a priority score using ESRD prevalence data from the 2013 USRDS Report and the geometric mean between a given jurisdiction\u2019s current apportionment (n) and its next position (n+1). The least burdensome model is that which results in the 1) least number of jurisdictions losing fellow positions and 2) lowest percent reduction for any single jurisdiction. There were 416 nephrology positions offered and 47 unfilled in 2013. In the SotFM, 23 jurisdictions would sacrifice these 47 positions. In the EPM, 369 positions were apportioned (=416-47); only 9 jurisdictions would experience a reduction. The largest single-jurisdiction reduction in fellow positions was 67% (SotFM) and 50% (EPM). The EPM results in a less burdensome reduction of fellow positions nationwide. The EPM is a time-tested model that injects fairness into the painful process of reducing the total number of fellow positions across America.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/592/', ['Nephrology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, East Carolina University']]
[u'Weak effects of fire, large herbivores, and their interaction on regrowth of harvested trees in two West African savannas', ['Andrew Tredennick', 'Moussa Karembe', 'Fadiala Dembele', 'Justin Dohn', 'Niall Hanan'], u'2014-12-18', u'Theory and empirical evidence for the impacts of fire and herbivory in savannas is well established \u2013 they are top-down disturbances that maintain savannas in disequilibrium states away from potential tree cover. In African savannas the demand for fuelwood is extremely high, so tree harvest likely also has an impact, both directly and indirectly, on tree cover, density, and biomass. Many savanna trees resprout vigorously from the base after harvest. However, harvested trees regenerate as saplings susceptible to fire and browsing, so harvest may have important demographic consequences. Here, we report the effects of tree harvest, and its interaction with fire and herbivory, on savanna dynamics by analyzing woody regrowth following a harvest in arid Sahelian and mesic Guinean savannas in Mali, West Africa. Tree harvest resulted in an overall reduction in wood production per tree compared to growth in non-harvested trees. Regrowth, either biomass or height, did not differ among fire and herbivory treatments. Our results suggest that the resprouting abilities that savanna trees have evolved to cope with frequent fire are essential for surviving tree harvest and subsequent disturbance. In these savannas, regrowth is rapid enough in the first growing season to escape the impact of dry season fires.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/718/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Wildland Resources, Utah State University', u'Facult\xe9 des sciences et techniques, University of Bamako', u'Institut Polytechnique Rurale du Katibougou', u'Natural Resource Ecology Laboratory and Graduate Degree Program in Ecology, Colorado State University', u'Geospatial Science Center of Excellence, South Dakota State University']]
[u'The Directory of Open Access Journals covers more biomedical open access journals than other databases', ['Mads S Liljekvist', 'Kristoffer Andresen', 'Hans-Christian Pommergaard', 'Jacob Rosenberg'], u'2014-12-18', u'Background: Open access (OA) journals disseminate research papers free of charge to the reader. Traditionally, biomedical researchers use databases like MEDLINE and EMBASE to discover new advances. However, biomedical OA journals might not fulfil such databases\u2019 criteria, hindering dissemination. The Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ) is a database searchable at article level, focusing exclusively on OA journals.\nThe aim of this study was to investigate DOAJ\u2019s coverage of biomedical OA journals compared with the conventional biomedical databases.\nMethods: Information on all journals listed in five conventional biomedical databases (MEDLINE, National Library of Medicine, PubMed Central, EMBASE and SCOPUS) and DOAJ were gathered. Journals were included if they were 1) actively publishing, 2) full OA, 3) prospectively indexed in one or more database, and 4) of biomedical subject. Impact factor and journal language were also collected. DOAJ was compared with conventional databases regarding the proportion of journals covered, along with their impact factor and publishing language. The proportion of journals with articles indexed by DOAJ was determined.\nResults: In total, 3,236 biomedical OA journals were included in the study. Of the included journals, 86.7% were listed in DOAJ. Combined, the conventional biomedical databases listed 75.0% of the journals; 18.7 % in MEDLINE; 36.5% in PubMed Central; 51.5% in SCOPUS and 50.6% in EMBASE. Of the journals in DOAJ, 88.7% published in English and 20.6% had received impact factor for 2012 compared with 93.5% and 26.0%, respectively, for journals in the conventional biomedical databases. Of journals exclusively listed in DOAJ, only one had received an impact factor. A subset of 51.1% and 48.5% of the journals in DOAJ had articles indexed from 2012 and 2013, respectively.\nConclusions: DOAJ is the most complete registry of biomedical OA journals compared with five conventional biomedical databases. However, DOAJ only indexes articles for half of the biomedical journals listed, making it an incomplete source for biomedical research papers in general.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/717/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Surgery, Herlev Hospital, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'IslandHunter \u2013 A Java-based GI detection software', ['Shakuntala Baichoo', 'Haswanee Goodur', 'Vyasanand Ramtohul'], u'2014-12-18', u'Over the past decade, researchers have discovered that apart from the essential genes, bacterial genomes also contain a variable amount of accessory genes acquired by horizontal gene transfer (HGT) that are categorized as genomic islands (GIs). GIs encode adaptive traits, which might be beneficial for the species under certain growth or environmental conditions. It has always been a challenge for biologists to identify GIs within a bacterial genome as they evolve very rapidly. This paper proposes a standalone software, IslanHunter, that has been developed using Java and BioJava and can extract GI regions using GC content, codon usage bias, dinucleotide frequency bias, tetranucleotide frequency bias, k-mer signature analysis (2-mer, 3-mer, 4-mer, 5-mer, and 6-mer) and presence of mobility genes. IslandHunter provides a simple graphical user interface where disclosed GIs are displayed in a tree-view and a circular graph. Users are presented with options to save the GI regions as blocks of DNA sequences in FASTA format. They can later use these predicted GI regions for further analysis. IslandHunter can take as input, files in GenBank, EMBL or FASTA formats. IslandHunter provides flexible display options and save options. The software has been evaluated against exiting tools with good performance. It is available for evaluation at https://github.com/ShakunBaichoo/IslandHunter .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/716/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'Dept of Computer Science & Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of Mauritius']]
[u'Understanding the context for pet obesity; self-reported beliefs and factors influencing pet feeding and exercise behaviour among pet owners', ['Martin J Downes', 'Catherine Devitt', 'Marie Downes', 'Simon J More'], u'2014-12-18', u'Pet obesity contributes to increased risk of various diseases, such as cancer and diabetes mellitus as well as worsening of orthopaedic problems, and a reduction in survival rate. Changes in feeding regimes and increased amounts of exercise have been an important component of weight management programs. This study identifies the self-reported beliefs and factors that influence owner behaviour around feeding and exercising their pet. Pet owners were recruited through six different private veterinary practices (three city practices; two in regional towns; and one in a rural area).\nSeven focus groups were conducted with 43 participants in total. Feeding one\u2019s pet is influenced by beliefs about pet specific needs and pet food and pet health, pet owners\u2019 perceived control over the feeding regime, and the implications for feeding for the pet owner. Treats are used in the absence of owner control over pet begging and emotional attachment, and to influence pet behaviour. Pet exercise is influenced by beliefs about pet specific exercise needs, and the implications of exercising one\u2019s pet for the pet owner.\nBeliefs, and barriers to appropriate feeding and exercise are useful in explaining pet owners\u2019 behaviour and are; associated with the level of control over the feeding regime, control relating to pet behaviour, and the perceived ease of feeding and exercise. Understanding owner behaviours on feeding and exercise allows for a more targeted approach to preventing and treating pet obesity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/715/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Centre for Applied Health Economics, Griffith Health Institute', u'Centre for Veterinary Epidemiology and Risk Analysis, School of Veterinary Medicine', u'Consultant Social Science Research Professional, Glendalough', u'Greencross Vets, Greencross Vets']]
[u'Analysis of the self-medication pattern among Brazilian users of the public health system', ['Daniel Corradi Carregal', 'Luiza Oliveira Prata Silveira'], u'2014-12-18', u'Self-medication is a common practice not only in Brazil but also in other countries. It consists of "the selection and use of drugs by people to treat self-diagnosed diseases or symptoms and must be understood as an element of self-care". Included in this prescription generic name (or orientation) of drugs by non-qualified people, as friends, family or the pharmacy clerks, these cases are also called "illegal medical practice". The present data confirm the importance of the study of self-medication and support the hypothesis of a naive and excessive belief of our society in the power of drugs, which contributes to the growing demand for pharmaceutical products for any type of disorder, as banal and self-limited. Thus, the drug was incorporated into the dynamics of consumer society and therefore is subject to the same tensions, interests and stiff competition in any market sector, moving away from its primary aim, the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of diseases. These results reinforce the need to inform people on the proper use of medications, as well as appropriate measures to ensure the supply of products needed, effective, safe and affordable.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/714/', ['Pharmacology', 'Public Health'], [u'General Medicine Internship, Faculdade de Medicina de Barbacena', u'Emergency Medicine Internship, Faculdade Medicina Barbacena']]
[u'Physiological performance of Persian acroporid corals in summer versus winter temperatures', ['Jahangir Vajed Samiei', 'Abolfazl Saleh', 'Ali Mehdinia', 'Arash Shirvani', 'Mohsen Kayal'], u'2014-12-18', u'With ongoing climate change, coral susceptibility to thermal stress constitutes a central concern in reef conservation. In the Persian Gulf, coral reefs are confronted with the most extreme temperatures. Over the last decades, both annual hot and cold peak periods in this region have been associated with episodes of coral bleaching and mortality. Using physiological performance as a measure of coral health, we investigated the thermal susceptibility of the common acroporid coral from the Persian Gulf, Acropora downingi, in Hengam Island where temperature oscillates seasonally in the range 20.2-34.2\xb0C. In a series of two short-term experiments, we exposed corals (1) to the constant temperature levels of summer versus winter, and (2) to progressive temperature deviations from the annual mean toward the two extreme seasonal values and beyond. We monitored four indictors of coral physiological performance: net photosynthesis (Pn), dark respiration (R), autotrophic capability (Pn/R), and survival. Warming revealed detrimental for Pn and survival of corals, while equivalent cooling did not. Pn/R was lower at the warmer thermal level within each season, and during summer compared to winter. Corals exposed to the maximum temperature of summer displayed Pn/R<1, inferring that photosynthetic performance could not support basal metabolic needs under this environment and that corals had to import organic matter or draw on their reserves to compensate for carbon losses during respiration. We therefore suggest that the Persian Gulf populations of A. downingi are more sensitive to the extreme temperatures endured in summer compared to that experienced in winter; and they may be impacted by future increases in water temperature.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/713/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Marine Biological Sciences, Iranian National Institute for Oceanography and Atmospheric Science', u'Bren School of Environmental Science and Management, University of California Santa Barbara']]
[u'Demographic rates of northern royal albatross at Taiaroa Head, New Zealand', ['Yvan Richard', 'Lyndon Perriman', 'Chris Lalas', 'Edward R. Abraham'], u'2014-12-17', u'Demographic rates, such as annual survival rate, are generally difficult to estimate for long-lived seabirds, because of the length of time required for this kind of study and the remoteness of colonies. However, a small colony of northern royal albatross (Diomedea sanfordi) established itself on the mainland of New Zealand at Taiaroa Head, making possible regular banding and monitoring of its individuals since the first chick fledged, in 1938. Data on the presence/absence of birds, as well as on breeding outcomes, were available for the period from 1989\u201390 to 2011\u201312, and included 2128 annual resightings of 355 banded individuals of known age. The main goal of the present study was to estimate the annual survival rate of juveniles, pre-breeders, and adults at Taiaroa Head. These rates were estimated simultaneously in a single Bayesian multi-state capture-recapture model. Several models were fitted to the data, with different levels of complexity. From the most parsimonious model, the overall annual adult survival rate was estimated as 0.950 (95% c.i.: 0.941\u20130.959). In this model, adult survival declined with age, from 0.976 (95% c.i.: 0.963\u20130.988) at 6 years, the minimum age at first breeding, to 0.915 (95% c.i.: 0.879\u20130.946) at 40 years. Mean annual survival of pre-breeders was 0.966 (95% c.i.: 0.950\u20130.980), and 0.933 (95% c.i.: 0.908\u20130.966) for juveniles. There was no discernible difference in survival between males and females, and there was no apparent trend in survival over time. Estimates of other demographic rates were also obtained during the estimation process. The mean age at first return of juveniles to the colony was estimated as 4.8 years (95% c.i.: 4.6\u20135.1), and the mean age at first breeding as 8.9 years (95% c.i.: 8.5\u20139.3). Because all the birds of the colony were banded, it was possible to estimate the total population size. The number of northern royal albatross present annually at the Taiaroa Head colony has doubled since 1989\u201390, and the current total population size was estimated to be over 200 individuals. The ratio of the total population size to the number of annual breeding pairs varied from 5 to 12 among years, with an overall mean of 7.65 (95% c.i.: 7.56\u20137.78), and this high variability highlights the need for a sufficient number of surveys of seabird breeding populations before reliable conclusions on population trends can be made. Although long-term data allowed estimates of demographic rates of northern royal albatross at Taiaroa Head, the location of the colony and the ongoing management by staff mean that the population dynamics may differ from those of the main population on the Chatham Islands.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/712/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Dragonfly Science', u'Department  of Conservation', u'Department of Marine Science, University of Otago']]
[u'Impacts of sea level rise and climate change on coastal plant species in the central California coast', ['Kendra Garner', 'Michelle Chang', 'Matthew Fulda', 'Jon Berlin', 'Rachel Freed', 'Melissa M. Soo-Hoo', 'David Revell', 'Makihiko Ikegami', 'Lorraine Flint', 'Alan Flint', 'Bruce E. Kendall'], u'2014-12-17', u'Local increases in sea level caused by global climate change pose a significant threat to the persistence of many coastal plant species through exacerbating inundation, flooding, and erosion. In addition to sea level rise (SLR), climate changes in the form of air temperature and precipitation regimes will also alter habitats of coastal plant species. Although numerous studies have analyzed the effect of climate change on future habitats through species distribution models (SDMs), none have incorporated the threat of exposure to SLR. We developed a model that quantified the effect of both SLR and climate change on habitat for 88 rare coastal plant species in San Luis Obispo, Santa Barbara, and Ventura Counties, California, USA. Our SLR model projects that by the year 2100, 60 of the 88 species will be threatened by SLR. We found that the probability of being threatened by SLR strongly correlates with a species\u2019 area, elevation, and distance from the coast, and that ten species could lose their entire current habitat in the study region. We modeled the habitat suitability of these 10 species under future climate using a species distribution model (SDM). Our SDM projects that 4 of the 10 species will lose all suitable current habitats in the region as a result of climate change. While SLR accounts for up to 9.2 km2 loss in habitat, climate change accounts for habitat suitability changes ranging from a loss of 1439 km2 for one species to a gain of 9795 km2 for another species. For three species, SLR is projected to reduce future suitable area by as much as 28% of total area. This suggests that while SLR poses a higher risk, climate changes in precipitation and air temperature represents a lesser known but potentially larger risk and a small cumulative effect from both.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/711/', ['Conservation Biology'], [u'Bren School of Environmental Science & Management, University of California, Santa Barbara', u'Revell Coastal, LLC', u'USGS California Water Science Center, U.S. Geological Survey']]
[u'Differential contribution of soil biota groups to plant litter decomposition as mediated by soil use', ['Ricardo A Casttro-Huerta', 'Liliana B Falco', 'Rosana V Sandler', 'Carlos Coviella'], u'2014-12-17', u'Plant decomposition is dependant on the activity of the soil biota and its interactions with climate, soil properties, and plant residue inputs. This work assessed the roles of different groups of the soil biota on litter decomposition, and the way they are modulated by soil use. Litterbags of different mesh sizes were filled with standardized dried leaves and placed on the same soil different use intensities: Naturalized grasslands, recent agriculture, and intensive agriculture fields. During sixth months, litterbags of each mesh size were collected once a month per system with five replicates. The remaining mass was measured and decomposition rates calculated. Differences were found for the different biota groups, and they were dependant on soil use. Within systems, the results show that in the naturalized grasslands, the macrofauna had the highest contribution to decomposition. In the recent agricultural system it was the combined activity of the macro and mesofauna, and in the intensive agricultural use it was the mesofauna activity. These results underscore the relative importance and activity of the different groups of the edaphic biota and the effects of different soil uses on soil biota activity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/710/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Ecology Laboratory, Terrestrial Ecology Research Program, Basic Sciences Department \u2013 Ecology and Sustainable Development Institute, Universidad Nacional de Lujan']]
[u'Parcellating connectivity in spatial maps', ['Christopher Baldassano', 'Diane M Beck', 'Li Fei-Fei'], u'2014-12-17', u"A common goal in biological sciences is to model a complex web of connections using a small number of interacting units. We present a general approach for dividing up elements in a spatial map based on their connectivity properties, allowing for the discovery of local regions underlying large-scale connectivity matrices. Our method is specifically designed to respect spatial layout and identify locally-connected clusters, corresponding to plausible coherent units such as strings of adjacent DNA base pairs, subregions of the brain, animal communities, or geographic ecosystems. Instead of using approximate greedy clustering, our nonparametric Bayesian model infers a precise parcellation using collapsed Gibbs sampling. We utilize an infinite clustering prior that intrinsically incorporates spatial constraints, allowing the model to search directly in the space of spatially-coherent parcellations. After showing results on synthetic datasets, we apply our method to both functional and structural connectivity data from the human brain. We find that our parcellation is substantially more effective than previous approaches at summarizing the brain's connectivity structure using a small number of clusters, produces better generalization to individual subject data, and reveals functional parcels related to known retinotopic maps in visual cortex. Additionally, we demonstrate the generality of our method by applying the same model to human migration data within the United States. This analysis reveals that migration behavior is generally influenced by state borders, but also identifies regional communities which cut across state lines. Our parcellation approach has a wide range of potential applications in understanding the spatial structure of complex biological networks.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/709/', ['Computational Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Computer Science, Stanford University', u'Department of Psychology and Beckman Institute, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign']]
[u'Are depredation rates by reef sharks influenced by fisher behaviour?', ['Magen Schifiliti', 'Dianne L McLean', 'Tim J Langlois', 'Matthew J Birt', 'Peter Barnes', 'Ryan Kempster'], u'2014-12-17', u'Shark depredation (damage to gear and loss of bait or hooked fish by a non-target species) is a common global occurrence. Depredation events by sharks can have negative impacts for the fishers, fishery targeted species and the sharks. It is, therefore important to better understand if learning behaviour of sharks can influence rates of depredation. Recreational fishers within the World Heritage Ningaloo Reef have reported increased rates of depredation by sharks over the last 5 years. This study aimed to determine if sharks are capable of learning to associate intensive recreational fishing activities with a food reward. We also aimed to test if sharks in areas frequently fished were more habituated to recreational fishing activities than those sharks within a no-take marine sanctuary. To simulate fishing activities baited underwater video systems were deployed in the morning (A.M.), midday, and afternoon (P.M.) for six consecutive days in Fished and Unfished sites. A significant decrease in time of arrival and time to first feed of sharks was seen across days at the Fished sites. The Unfished sites had very low numbers of sharks observed (n=3) and therefore was not statistically analysed. The relative abundance of sharks did not significantly increase across days, however there was a negative correlation between lemon sharks (Negaprion sp.) and whalers (Carcharhinus sp.). Our study suggests sharks are capable of being classically conditioned to recreational fishing activities and depredation rates are influenced by fisher behaviour. We have highlighted possible mitigation strategies designed to un-condition sharks to recreational fishing, including modifying fishing practices, use of deterrents based on the sensitivity of shark senses and management strategies. The best approach is likely to be enabling fishers to become more knowledgeable of how and why shark depredation events happen and take appropriate steps to avoid them.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/708/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Marine Biology'], [u'The UWA Oceans Institute and School of Plant Biology, The University of Western Australia', u'The UWA Oceans Institute and School of Animal Biology, The University of Western Australia', u'Department of Parks and Wildlife']]
[u'Association of academic stressors with sleep disturbances in medical students: is psychological stress a mediator?', ['Ahmed Waqas', 'Spogmai Khan', 'Waqar muhammad Sharif', 'Uzma khalid', 'Asad Ali'], u'2014-12-16', u'Introduction: Medicine is one of the most stressful fields of education because of its highly demanding professional and academic requirements. Psychological stress, anxiety, depression and sleep disturbances are highly prevalent in medical students. Methods: This cross-sectional study was undertaken at CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry in Lahore, Pakistan, and was approved by the CMH LMC Research Ethics Committee. Students enrolled in all yearly courses for the MBBS degree were included. The questionnaire consisted of four sections: 1) demographics 2) a table listing 34 potential stressors, 3) the 14-item Perceived Stress Scale (PSS-14), and 4) the Pittsburgh Quality of Sleep Index (PSQI). Data were analyzed in SPSS v. 20. Logistic regression was run to identify associations between group of stressors, gender, year of study, student\u2019s background, stress and quality of sleep. Results: Total response rate was 93.9% (263/280 respondents returned the questionnaire). The mean PSS-14 score was 30.04 (6.97). Logistic regression analysis showed that cases of high-level stress were associated with year of study and academic-related stressors only. Univariate analysis identified 157 cases with high stress levels (59.7%). The mean PSQI score was 8.09 (3.12). According to PSQI score, 203/263 respondents (77.02%) were poor sleepers. Logistic regression showed that mean PSS-14 score was a significant predictor of PSQI score (OR 1.99, P<0.05). Conclusion: We found a very high prevalence of academic stress and poor sleep quality among medical students. Many medical students reported using sedatives more than once a week. Academic stressors contributed significantly to stress and sleep disorders in medical students.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/706/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry, Lahore']]
[u'Experimental food supplementation increases reproductive effort in an antbird in subtropical Brazilian Atlantic Forest fragments', ['James J Roper', 'Andre M. X. Lima', 'Angelica M. K. Uejima'], u'2014-12-16', u'Food limitation may interact with nest predation and influence nesting patterns, such as breeding season length and renesting intervals. If so, reproductive effort should change with food availability. Thus, when food is limited, birds should have fewer attempts and shorter seasons than when food is not limiting. Here we experimentally test that increased food availability results in increased reproductive effort in a fragmented landscape in the Variable Antshrike (Thamnophilus caerulescens) in southern Brazil. We followed nesting pairs in five natural fragments (4, 23, 24, 112, 214 ha) in which food was supplemented for half of those pairs, beginning with the first nest. Nest success in the largest (214 ha) fragment was 59%, compared to 5% in the 112 ha fragment and no nest was successful in the smallest (24 ha) fragment. Birds were seen, but evidence of nesting was never found in the two smallest fragments. Pairs with supplemented food were more likely to increase clutch size from two to three eggs, tended to renest sooner (20 d on average) than control pairs. Also, fragment size interacted with breeding and pairs in the largest fragment had greater daily nest survival rates, and so nests tended to last longer, and so these pairs had fewer nesting attempts than those in the 112 ha fragment while more than those in the smallest fragment with nesting (24 ha). Clearly, pairs increased their reproductive effort when food was supplemented in comparison to control pairs and fragment size seems to influence both predation risk and food abundance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/705/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Ecologia de Ecossistemas, Universidade Vila Velha', u'Programa de P\xf3s Gradua\xe7\xe3o em Ecologia e Conserva\xe7\xe3o, Universidade Federal do Paran\xe1', u'Departamento de Zoologia, Universidade Federal do Paran\xe1', u'Centro Acad\xeamico de Vit\xf3ria, Universidade Federal de Pernambuco']]
[u'The taxonomy of a new parvicursorine alvarezsauroid specimen IVPP V20341 (Dinosauria: Theropoda) from the Upper Cretaceous Wulansuhai Formation of Bayan Mandahu, Inner Mongolia, China', ['Michael Pittman', 'Xing Xu', 'Josef B. Stiegler'], u'2014-12-16', u'A new parvicursorine alvarezsauroid theropod specimen IVPP V20341 from the Upper Cretaceous Wulansuhai Formation of Bayan Mandahu, Inner Mongolia, China is described. IVPP V20341 appears to be distinguishable amongst alvarezsauroids by cervical proceoly and relatively larger semi-circular neural canals, but these features are not proposed as autapomorphies because current knowledge of alvarezsauroid necks and tails remains sparse. IVPP V20341 is distinguishable from Linhenykus - the sole parvicursorine at Bayan Mandahu - by 13 anatomical features that mostly relate to cervical and caudal vertebrae. However, it is unclear how these vertebral elements compare positionally along the spine, so more complete future finds could revise the observed differences. Thus, there are still seven parvicursorine species from the Cretaceous Gobi Basin after the discovery of IVPP V20341.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/702/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, The University of Hong Kong', u'Key Laboratory of Vertebrate Evolution and Human Origin of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Institute of Vertebrate Paleontology & Paleoanthropology, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Department of Biological Sciences, The George Washington University']]
[u'Modeling the irrigation requirements for an experimental site in Northern Alberta, Canada', ['Michel Rahbeh', 'David Chanasyk', 'Shane Patterson'], u'2014-12-16', u'A combined methodology of the Root Zone Water Quality Model (RZWQM), the generation of stochastic rainfall realizations, and an historical meteorological record were used to determine the supplementary irrigation requirement for an experimental site located in northern Alberta. The site receives an annual rainfall of approximately 500 mm yr -1, and contains a fluctuating water table. The simulated results showed maximum irrigation requirements of 270 mm, however, half that amount can be required during an average or wet growing season of mean rainfall of 350 and 500 mm, respectively. The irrigation requirements were influenced by rainfall amount and distribution, downward flux and the subsequent fluctuation of the water table and the depth of water table at the beginning of the growing season, which was influenced by the winter season precipitation. The simulated results suggested that a water table less than 2 m deep from the ground surface can significantly reduce the irrigation requirements. Therefore, the winter precipitation and initial depth of the water table are suitable indicators of the likely requirement of irrigation during the growing season.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/696/', ['Agricultural Science'], [u'Department of land, water and environment, University of Jordan', u'Department of renewable resources, University of Alberta']]
[u'Illustrating a free, open-source method for quantifying locomotor performance with sprinting Aegean wall lizards', ['Colin Donihue', 'Ben Kazez'], u'2014-12-16', u'Locomotion is an important characteristic of many animals\u2019 natural history. With the increasing availability of high-speed video cameras, videography is a powerful tool for analyzing fast or subtle motions with unprecedented resolution. However, the programs currently available for analyzing these videos are either dauntingly time intensive or prohibitively expensive. We have developed a free, open-source video analysis program, SAVRA, that enables the quick capture of scaled position data. Here we demonstrate its use with an analysis of several videos of the Aegean wall lizard (Podarcis erhardii). We hope making this program freely available will facilitate the analysis of video data across taxa, not just in laboratory settings but also in natural contexts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/701/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Yale University', u'Carleton College']]
[u'Multimodal Imaging Brain Connectivity Analysis toolbox (MIBCA)', ['Andre Santos Ribeiro', 'Luis Miguel Lacerda', 'Hugo A. Ferreira'], u'2014-12-16', u'Aim: In recent years, connectivity studies using neuroimaging data have increased the understanding of the organization of large-scale structural and functional brain networks. However, data analysis is time consuming as rigorous procedures must be assured, from structuring data and pre-processing to modality specific data procedures. Until now, no single toolbox was able to perform such investigations on truly multimodal image data from beginning to end, including the combination of different connectivity analyses. Thus, we have developed the Multimodal Imaging Brain Connectivity Analysis (MIBCA) toolbox with the goal of diminishing time waste in data processing and to allow an innovative and comprehensive approach to brain connectivity. Materials and Methods: The MIBCA toolbox is a fully automated all-in-one connectivity toolbox that offers pre-processing, connectivity and graph theoretical analyses of multimodal image data such as diffusion-weighted imaging, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and positron emission tomography (PET). It was developed in MATLAB environment and pipelines well-known neuroimaging softwares such as Freesurfer, SPM, FSL, and Diffusion Toolkit. It further implements routines for the construction of structural, functional and effective or combined connectivity matrices, as well as, routines for the extraction and calculation of imaging and graph-theory metrics, the latter using also functions from the the Brain Connectivity Toolbox. Finally, the toolbox performs group statistical analysis and enables data visualization in the form of matrices, 3D brain graphs and connectograms. In this paper the MIBCA toolbox is presented by illustrating its capabilities using multimodal image data from a group of 35 healthy subjects (19-73 years old) with volumetric T1-weighted, diffusion tensor imaging, and resting state fMRI data, and 10 subjets with 18F-Altanserin PET data also. Results: It was observed both a high inter-hemispheric symmetry and an intra-hemispheric modularity associated with structural data, whilst functional data presented lower inter-hemispheric symmetry and a high inter-hemispheric modularity. Furthermore, when testing for differences between two subgroups (<40 and >40 years old adults) we observed a significant reduction in the volume and thickness, and an increase in the mean diffusivity of most of the subcortical/cortical regions. Conclusion: While bridging the gap between the high numbers of packages and tools widely available for the neuroimaging community in one toolbox, MIBCA also offers different possibilities for combining, analysing and visualising data in novel ways, enabling a better understanding of the human brain.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/699/', ['Neuroscience', 'Computational Science'], [u'Centre for Neuropsychopharmacology, Division of Brain Sciences, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London', u'Institute of Biophysics and Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Sciences, University of Lisbon', u'Department of Neuroimaging, Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience, King\u2019s College London']]
[u'Diagnosis of bacterial vaginosis by a new multiplex peptide nucleic acid fluorescence in situ hybridization method', ['Antonio Machado', 'Joana Castro', 'Tatiana Cereija', 'Carina Almeida', 'Nuno Cerca'], u'2014-12-14', u'Bacterial vaginosis (BV) is one of most common vaginal infection and its diagnosis by classical methods reveals low specificity. Our goal was to compare the accuracy of BV diagnosis between the gold standard method, Nugent score, and our novel Peptide Nucleic Acid Fluorescence in situ Hybridization (PNA-FISH) methodology, which targets Lactobacillus and Gardnerella vaginalis populations. Epidemiological characteristic of the population under study (n=150) mirrored what has been described before in other major studies. Our results have shown a sensitivity of 84.6% (95% confidence interval (CI), from 64.3 to 95.0%) and a specificity of 97.6% (95% CI, from 92.6 to 99.4%), which attests the clinical value of this PNA-FISH approach. This methodology combines the specificity of PNA probes for Lactobacillus species and G. vaginalis visualization, and the criteria defined by Nugent score, allowing a trustful evaluation of the bacteria present in vaginal microflora and avoiding the occurrence of misleading diagnostics. Therefore, the PNA-FISH methodology represents a valuable alternative for BV diagnosis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/698/', ['Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Epidemiology', 'Infectious Diseases', "Women's Health"], [u'Centre of Biological Engineering, LIBRO \u2013 Laboratory of Research in Biofilms Ros\xe1rio Oliveira, University of Minho']]
[u'Seven years of experimental warming and nutrient addition causes decline of bryophytes and lichens in alpine meadow and heath communities', ['Juha M Alatalo', 'Annika K Jagerbrand', 'Ulf Molau'], u'2014-12-14', u'Global change is predicted to have large and rapid impact on polar and alpine regions. Bryophytes and lichens increase their importance in terms of biomass, carbon/nutrient cycling, cover and ecosystem functioning at higher latitudes/altitudes. Here we report from a seven year factorial experiment with nutrient addition and warming on the abundance of bryophytes and lichens in an alpine meadow and heath community. Treatments had significant negative effect on relative change of total abundance bryophytes and lichens, the largest decline to the nutrient addition and the combined nutrient addition and warming treatments, bryophytes decreasing most in the meadow, lichens most in the heath. Nutrient addition, and the combined nutrient addition and warming brought rapid decrease in both bryophytes and lichens, while warming had a delayed negative impact. Of sixteen species that were included the statistical analyses, we found significant negative effects on seven species. We show that impact of simulated global change on bryophytes and lichens differ in in time and magnitude among treatments and plant communities. Our results underscore the importance of longer-term studies to improve the quality of climate change models, as short-term studies are poor predictors of longer-term responses of bryophytes and lichens, similar to what have been shown for vascular plants. Species-specific responses may differ in time, and this will likely cause changes in the dominance structures of bryophytes and lichens over time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/672/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Ecology and Genetics, Uppsala University', u'Environmental Unit, VTI, Swedish National Road and Transport Research Institute', u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg']]
[u"Staff attitudes and beliefs around LGBTQ issues at the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario", ['Margaret Sampson', 'Marnie Potter', 'Heather Bragg', 'Corrine Langill'], u'2014-12-14', u'Introduction: Pediatric specialty hospitals may be experiencing increases in the number of lesbian, gay, bisexual transgender and queer (LGBTQ) patients and parents seen. There is no published information on the attitudes, beliefs and information needs of the broad range of staff and physicians that provide care in a hospital context, although recent surveys have considered individual professional groups. We undertook such a hospital-wide survey to assess the climate and information needs of care providers. Methods: A web-based survey was opened to all staff and physicians at a tertiary care pediatric hospital in Ottawa, Canada in June 2013. Results: 315 completed surveys were analyzed. Most respondents identified as heterosexual and none identified as transgender. Approximately half were directly involved in patient care. Approximately 90% were fully comfortable around LGBTQ patients and coworkers and most felt the hospital provided fair and equitable care for all. LGBTQ-identified respondents were somewhat less positive about the climate than heterosexual respondents, and front line staff less positive than managers. Many respondents identified knowledge deficits and were receptive to additional training. Conclusions: In the context of a socially and legally liberal jurisdiction, most pediatric hospital staff are accepting of LGBTQ clientele and co-workers while some identify areas where knowledge and skill could be improved and are willing to undergo additional training in working with LGBTQ clientele. Survey results can inform policy and procedural changes as well as training initiatives.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/695/', ['Pediatrics'], [u'Library Services, Childrens Hospital of Eastern Ontario', u'Family Support Coordinator, Autism Ontario, Eastern Region', u'Private Consultant', u"Mental Health Patient Service Unit, Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario", u"Health Promotion & Injury Prevention, Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario"]]
[u'Characterization of four new monoclonal antibodies against the distal N-terminal region of PrPc', ['Alessandro Didonna', 'Anja Colja Venturini', 'Katrina Hartman', 'Tanja Vranac', 'Vladka Curin Serbec', 'Giuseppe Legname'], u'2014-12-14', u'Prion diseases are a group of fatal neurodegenerative disorders that affect humans and animals. They are characterized by the accumulation in the central nervous system of a pathological form of the host-encoded prion protein (PrPC). The prion protein is a membrane glycoprotein that consists of two domains: a globular, structured C-terminus and an unstructured N-terminus. The N-terminal part of the protein is involved in different functions in both health and disease. In the present work we discuss the production and biochemical characterization of a panel of four monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) against the distal N-terminus of PrPC using a well-established methodology based on the immunization of Prnp0/0 mice. Additionally, we show their ability to block prion (PrPSc) replication at nanomolar concentrations in a cell culture model of prion infection. These mAbs represent a promising tool for prion diagnostics and for studying the physiological role of the N-terminal domain of PrPC.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/694/', ['Biochemistry', 'Neuroscience', 'Immunology'], [u'Department of Neurology, University of California San Francisco', u'Department for Production of Diagnostic Reagents and Research, Blood Transfusion Centre of Slovenia', u'Department of Neuroscience, Scuola Internazionale Superiore di Studi Avanzati (SISSA)', u'ELETTRA Laboratory, Sincrotrone Trieste S.C.p.A', u'Italian Institute of Technology, SISSA Unit']]
[u'HIV and AIDS related knowledge and attitudes towards learners infected with HIV: Survey among high school learners in Gauteng and North West provinces in South Africa', ['Sphiwe Madiba', 'Mathildah M Mokgatle'], u'2014-12-12', u'The success of the proposed HIV testing and counselling (HTC) initiative among learners at high school in South Africa depends on their acceptability of the service, which may be influenced by their HIV/AIDSknowledge, perceptions, and attitudes. The study assessed high school learners\u2019 HIV knowledge and attitudes towards learners infected with HIV. The survey was part of formative evaluation with grade 10-12 learners in order to assess the acceptability of HTC at schools. The study consisted of 17 high schools in two provinces in South Africa.  T-  tests were used to compare the differences in the mean HIV knowledge scores. Logistic regressions were performed to establish relationships between demographic variables, attitudes, and HIV knowledge scores. The sample consisted of 2970 learners aged 14-27years, 1810 (61%) had had sex, and 1494 (50.3%) had tested for HIV in the past year. The majority had high knowledge scores: 87% on HIV-related knowledge, 98.6% on the modes of transmission, and 73% on prevention. Overall, HIV knowledge was high, with a total mean score of 20.5 out of 26 points. There were significant differences in the HIV knowledge total mean scores; females had higher scores (M= 20.6, SD=2.3) than males (M=20.3, SD=2.4), and the younger age group (M= 20.5, SD=2.4) had higher scores than the older age group (M=20.1, SD=2.1). A quarter (25.4%) exhibited negative attitudes, 13.9% felt that HIV-positive learners should be isolated, and 75% would not date HIV-positive learners. Attitudes were associated with gender (OR=0.48, CI: 0.41-0.57), grades (OR=3.24, CI: 2.36-4.44), and total HIV knowledge scores (OR=2.21, CI: 1.43-3.43). Despite substantial HIV knowledge, there were knowledge gaps and misconceptions, which resulted in negative attitudes towards the disease. Appropriate sexual health education and HIV prevention interventions in school are crucial in correcting the knowledge gaps as well as reducing stigma and discrimination to assist learners to be accepting of HIV-positive persons.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/693/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'HIV', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Public Health, Department of Environmental and Occupational Heath, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Limpopo, Medunsa Campus', u'School of Public Health, Department of Biostatistics, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Limpopo, Medunsa Campus']]
[u'Bayesian inference of protein structure from chemical shift data', ['Lars A Bratholm', 'Anders Steen Christensen', 'Thomas Hamelryck', 'Jan H Jensen'], u'2014-12-12', u'Protein chemical shifts are routinely used to augment molecular mechanics force fields in protein structure simulations, with weights of the chemical shift restraints determined empirically. These weights, however, might not be an optimal descriptor of a given protein structure and predictive model, and a bias is introduced which might result in incorrect structures. In the inferential structure determination framework, both the unknown structure and the disagreement between experimental and back-calculated data are formulated as a joint probability distribution, thus utilizing the full information content of the data. Here, we present the formulation of such a probability distribution where the error in chemical shift prediction is described by either a Gaussian or Cauchy distribution. The methodology is demonstrated and compared to a set of empirically weighted potentials through Markov chain Monte Carlo simulations of three small proteins (ENHD, Protein G and the SMN Tudor Domain) using the PROFASI force field and the chemical shift predictor CamShift. Using a clustering-criterion for identifying the best structure, together with the addition of a solvent exposure scoring term, the simulations suggests that sampling both the structure and the uncertainties in chemical shift prediction leads more accurate structures compared to conventional methods using empirical determined weights. The Cauchy distribution, using either sampled uncertainties or predetermined weights, did, however, result in overall better convergence to the native fold, suggesting that both types of distribution might be useful in different aspects of the protein structure prediction.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/692/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Biology, Bioinformatics Center, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Evaluating manta ray mucus as an alternative DNA source for population genetics study: underwater-sampling, dry-storage and PCR success', ['Tom Kashiwagi', 'Elisabeth A Maxwell', 'Andrea D Marshall', 'Ana B Christensen'], u'2014-12-12', u'Sharks and rays are increasingly being identified as high-risk species for extinction, prompting urgent assessments of their local or regional populations. Advanced genetic analyses can contribute relevant information on effective population size and connectivity among populations although acquiring sufficient regional sample sizes can be challenging. DNA is typically amplified from tissue samples which are collected by hand spears with modified biopsy punch tips. This technique is not always popular due mainly to a perception that invasive sampling might harm the rays, change their behaviour, or have a negative impact on tourism. To explore alternative methods, we evaluated the yields and PCR success of DNA template prepared from the manta ray mucus collected underwater and captured and stored on a Whatman FTATM Elute card. The pilot study demonstrated that mucus can be effectively collected underwater using toothbrush. DNA stored on cards was found to be reliable for PCR-based population genetics studies. We successfully amplified mtDNA ND5, nuclear DNA RAG1, and microsatellite loci for all samples. As the yields of DNA with the tested method were low, further improvements are desirable for assays that may require larger amounts of DNA, such as population genomic studies using emerging next-gen sequencing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/690/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Molecular Fisheries Laboratory, University of Queensland', u'Marine Megafauna Foundation', u'Biology Department, Lamar University', u'Global Manta Ray Research, Marine Megafauna Foundation']]
[u'Requirements for data integration platforms in biomedical research networks: A reference model', ['Matthias Ganzinger', 'Petra Knaup'], u'2014-12-12', u'Biomedical research networks need to integrate research data among their members and with external partners. To support such data sharing activities, adequate information technology infrastructure is necessary. To facilitate the establishments of such an infrastructure, we developed a reference model for requirements. The reference model consists of five reference goals and 15 reference requirements. Using the Unified Modeling Language, the goals and requirements are set into relation to each other. In addition, all goals and requirements are described textually in tables. This reference model can be used by research networks as a basis for the resource efficient acquisition of their project specific requirements. Further, a concrete instance of the reference model is described for a research network on liver cancer. The reference model is transferred into a requirements model of the specific network. Based on this concrete requirements model, a service-oriented information technology architecture is derived and also described in this paper.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/689/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Medical Biometry and Informatics, Heidelberg University']]
[u'Loss of CITED1, an MITF regulator, drives a phenotype switch in vitro and can predict clinical outcome in primary melanoma tumours', ['Jill Howlin', 'Helena Cirenajwis', 'Barbara. Lettiero', 'Johan Staaf', 'Martin Lauss', 'Lao Saal', 'Ake Borg', 'Sofia K Gruvberger-Saal', 'Goran B Jonsson'], u'2014-12-11', u"CITED1 is a non-DNA binding transcriptional co-regulator whose expression can distinguish the \u2018proliferative\u2019 from \u2018invasive\u2019 signature in the phenotype-switching model of melanoma. We have found that, in addition to other 'proliferative' signature genes, CITED1 expression is repressed by TGF\u03b2 while the \u2018invasive\u2019 signature genes are upregulated. In agreement, CITED1 positively correlates with MITF expression and can discriminate the MITF-high/pigmentation tumor molecular subtype in a large cohort (120) of melanoma cell lines. Interestingly, CITED1 overexpression significantly suppressed MITF promoter activation, mRNA and protein expression levels while MITF was transiently upregulated following siRNA mediated CITED1 silencing. Conversely, MITF siRNA silencing resulted in CITED1 downregulation indicating a reciprocal relationship. Whole genome expression analysis identified a phenotype shift induced by CITED1 silencing and driven mainly by expression of MITF and a cohort of MITF target genes that were significantly altered. Concomitantly, we found changes in the cell-cycle profile that manifest as transient G1 accumulation, increased expression of CDKN1A and a reduction in cell viability. Additionally, we could predict survival outcome by classifying primary melanoma tumors using our in vitro derived \u2018CITED1-silenced\u2019 gene expression signature. We hypothesize that CITED1 acts a regulator of MITF, functioning to maintain MITF levels in a range compatible with tumourigenesis.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/686/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Division of Oncology-Pathology, Lund University Cancer Center/Medicon Village', u'Cell and Experimental Pathology, Department of Laboratory Medicine Malm\xf6, Lund University']]
[u'Natural variation in teosinte at the domestication locus teosinte branched1 (tb1)', ['Laura Vann', 'Thomas Kono', 'Tanja Pyhajarvi', 'Matthew B. Hufford', 'Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra'], u'2014-12-11', u'The teosinte branched1 (tb1) gene is a major QTL controlling branching differences between maize and its wild progenitor, teosinte. The insertion of a transposable element (Hopscotch) upstream of tb1 is known to enhance the gene\u2019s expression, causing reduced tillering in maize. Observations of the maize tb1 allele in teosinte and estimates of an insertion age of the Hopscotch that predates domestication led us to investigate its prevalence and potential role in teosinte. We assessed the prevalence of the Hopscotch element across an Americas-wide sample of 837 maize and teosinte individuals using a co-dominant PCR assay. Additionally, we calculated population genetic summaries using sequence data from a subset of individuals from four teosinte populations and collected phenotypic data using seed from a single teosinte population where Hopscotch was found segregating at high frequency. Genotyping results indicate the Hopscotch element is found in a number of teosinte populations and linkage disequilibrium near tb1 does not support recent introgression from maize. Population genetic signatures are consistent with selection on the tb1 locus revealing a potential ecological role, but a greenhouse experiment does not detect a strong association between the Hopscotch and tillering in teosinte. Our findings suggest the role of Hopscotch differs between maize and teosinte. Future work should assess tb1 expression levels in teosinte with and without the Hopscotch and more comprehensively phenotype teosinte to assess the ecological significance of the Hopscotch insertion and, more broadly, the tb1 locus in teosinte.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/685/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics'], [u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California', u'Department of Agronomy and Plant Genetics, University of Minnesota', u'Department of Biology, University of Oulu', u'Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa State University', u'Center for Population Biology and Genome Center, University of California']]
[u'Litterfall and growth in three forests in Montseny massif', ['Antonia Caritat Compte', 'Marina Pi', 'Lluis Vilar', 'Jordi Bou'], u'2014-12-10', u'The nemoral forests of the montane level are especially interesting, because they are on the edge of their distribution. We want to see the influence of some environmental conditions (temperature and rainfall) on the litterfall and growth, in three kinds of these forests. The Montseny massif in the NE part of Iberian Peninsula, with a maximum altitude of 1.706 m, has a strong gradient of climate and vegetation, from the lowlands to the top of the mountains. We analyze three forests in the Montseny massif, two of them are composed by deciduous species not very extensive in the region (beech and sessile oak) and the other is a Mediterranean species, the mountain holm oak. We recollect data since 2007, monthly litterfall was measured and radial growth, and correlated with the climate of the study area. Our results shows that Fagus sylvatica recorded the biggest drop in annual litterfall (6.3 Mg / ha), followed by Q. ilex (5.3 Mg / ha) and Q. petraea (4.6 Mg / ha) all recorded values \u200b\u200bare similar to those observed in other forests and mountains of the same state of maturity equivalent. The start of the growth took place in the spring and Quercus spp. occurred more gradually than in F. sylvatica. We found that the accumulated rainfall in late spring has had a positive effect specially on the growth of Quercus species while the effect of summer temperature has been especially prominent in beech. Mediterranean species show larger fluctuations growth than Central European ones in response to lower water availability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/684/', ['Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Facultat de Ci\xe8ncies, Grup Flora i Vegetaci\xf3, Universitat de Girona']]
[u'Test re-test reliability and construct validity of the star-track test of manual dexterity', ['Niels Kildebro', 'Ilda Amirian', 'Ismail Gogenur', 'Jacob Rosenberg'], u'2014-12-10', u'Objectives: To determine test re-test reliability and construct validity of the star-track test of manual dexterity. Design: Test re-test reliability was tested in a controlled study. Construct validity was tested in a blinded randomized crossover study. Setting: The study was performed at a university hospital in Denmark.Participants: A total of 11 subjects for test re-test and 20 subjects for the construct validity study were included. All were healthy volunteers. Intervention: The test re-test trial had two measurements with 2 days pause in between. The interventions in the construct validity study included baseline measurement, intervention 1: fatigue, intervention 2: stress, and intervention 3: fatigue and stress. There was a 2 day pause between each intervention. Main outcome measure: Integrated measure of completion time and number of errors. Results: All participants completed the study (test re-test n = 11; construct validity n=20). Test re-test showed a strong Pearson product-moment correlation (r= 0.90, n= 11, P < 0.01) with no sign of learning effect. The 20 subjects in the construct validity trial were randomized to the order of the four interventions, so that all subjects completed each intervention once. A repeated measures ANOVA determined that mean integrated measure differed between interventions (p = 0.003). Post hoc tests using Bonferroni correction revealed that compared with baseline all interventions had significantly higher integrated scores ranging from 47-59% difference in mean. Conclusion: The star track test of manual dexterity had a strong test re-test reliability, and was able to discriminate between a subject\xb4s normal manual dexterity and dexterity after exposure to fatigue and/or stress.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/683/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Center for Perioperative Optimization, Department Surgery, University of Copenhagen, Herlev Hospital', u'Department of Surgery, K\xf8ge Hospital']]
[u'Blood serum and BSA, but neither red blood cells nor hemoglobin can support vitellogenesis and egg production in the dengue vector Aedes aegypti', ['Kristina K Gonzales', 'Hitoshi Tsujimoto', 'Immo A Hansen'], u'2014-12-10', u'Aedes aegypti is the major vector of dengue, yellow fever and chikungunya viruses that put millions of people in endemic countries at risk. Mass rearing of this mosquito is crucial for strategies that use modified insects to reduce vector populations and transmission of pathogens, such as sterile insect technique or population replacement. A major problem for vector mosquito mass rearing is the requirement of vertebrate blood for egg production since it poses significant costs as well as potential health hazards. Also regulations for human and animal use as blood source can pose a significant obstacle. A completely artificial diet that supports egg production in vector mosquitoes can solve this problem. In this study, we compared different blood fractions as dietary protein sources for mosquito egg production. We also tested artificial diets made from commercially available blood proteins (bovine serum albumin (BSA) and hemoglobin). We found that Ae. aegypti performed vitellogenesis and produced eggs when given whole bovine blood, serum, or an artificial diet containing BSA. Conversely, egg production was impaired after feeding of the red blood cell fraction or an artificial diet containing only hemoglobin. Our results indicate that serum proteins, not hemoglobin, may replace vertebrate blood in artificial diets for mass mosquito rearing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/682/', ['Entomology'], [u'Department of Biology, New Mexico State University', u'Institute for Applied Biosciences, New Mexico State University', u'Molecular Biology Program, New Mexico State University']]
[u'Evaluation of autotrophic and mixotrophic regimen Chlorella pyrenoidosa cells in various wastes water for its biochemical composition and biomass production', ['Nisha Phour Dhull', 'Raman Soni', 'Deepak Kumar Rahi', 'Sanjeev Kumar Soni'], u'2014-12-10', u'The present study investigates the possibility of integrating an existing industrial large scale biomass production with the treatment of waste water in which a mixture of organic and inorganic rich pollutants was used as a medium. This study suggests that the replacement of a defined medium with a complete mixotrophic medium gives a significant statistical difference in terms of growth parameters i.e. biomass production and specific growth rate. The green microalga C. pyrenoidosa was cultivated under different mixotrophic conditions for evaluation of biomass production. Inorganic defined fog\u2019s medium supplemented, with raw dairy wastewater led to 1.37g/L biomass production in comparison to 1.2g/L obtained with pure glucose revealing 14.16% increase. The study also involves the supplementation of raw dairy wastewater as an organic carbon source in an inorganic medium comprising municipal treated water and reverse osmosis (RO) treated wastewater and attained 2.4g/L and 1.6g/L of biomass respectively, as compared to 0.3g/L and 0.16g/L obtained in the wastewaters alone revealing 700% and 900% increase respectively. Mixotrophic regimen cells as analyzed by a 2D Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy for its biochemical content revealed that fog\u2019s blended raw dairy waste (RDW) regimen cells had maximum Carbohydrate/Amide ratio. The study suggests that the mixotrophic regimen C. pyrenoidosa cells can show appropriate growth in a mixture of waste waters and the same comes out to be a cost effective and feasible alternative commercial medium for biomass production without requiring any expensive organic carbon sources in the culture medium.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/681/', ['Biotechnology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Panjab University', u'Department of Biotechnology, D.A.V. College']]
[u'Sex-specific predation risk and the evolution of sexual dimorphism in immunocompetence: a theoretical analysis', ['Benjamin Fanson', 'Eirik  Svik'], u'2014-12-09', u'Sexual dimorphism in immunocompetence, with males having lower immune function, is a prevalent pattern in nature. The main evolutionary explanation for this pattern is that males preferentially allocate resources away from immune function and towards reproductive effort to increase their competitiveness for limited females. However, the role of differential predation risk between the sexes has not been considered, despite predation risk being a major driver of life history strategies and male sexual traits often having associated predation costs. It is unclear whether increased predation risk should increase or decrease investment in immune function, as males have been shown to utilize both behavioural (e.g. decrease foraging activity) and/or life-history (e.g. decrease investment in sexual trait) defense strategies to manage predation risk. Here, we modelled optimal resource acquisition and allocation towards immune function under differential predation risk with multiple defense strategies. If males have limited defense strategies, increasing predation risk caused males to trade-off immune function for reproductive effort, leading to reduced immunocompetence. In contrast, if males can only decrease predation risk through reduction of reproductive effort (e.g. decrease colouration or calling rates), then increasing predation risk causes immune function to increase. If males can utilize multiple defense strategies and sexual selection is low, then males maintain a constant immune function as predation risk increases. Sexual selection robustly resulted in decreased immunocompetence. Overall, our results suggest that predation plays an important role in the evolution of sexual dimorphism in immunocompetence, but predicting its effect requires understanding the integrated defense strategies available.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/679/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Centre for Integrative Ecology, Deakin University', u'Department of Biology, Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Early archosauromorph remains from the Permo-Triassic Buena Vista formation of NorthEastern Uruguay', ['Martin Ezcurra', 'Pablo Velozo', 'Melitta Meneghel', 'Graciela Pineiro'], u'2014-12-09', u'The Permo-Triassic archosauromorph record is crucial to understand the impact of the Permo-Triassic mass extinction on the early evolution of the group and its subsequent dominance in Mesozoic terrestrial ecosystems. However, the Permo-Triassic archosauromorph record is still very poor in most continents and hampers the identification of global macroevolutionary patterns. Here we describe cranial and postcranial bones from the Permo-Triassic Buena Vista Formation of northeastern Uruguay that contribute to increase the meagre early archosauromorph record from South America. A basioccipital fused to both partial exoccipitals and three cervical vertebrae are assigned to Archosauromorpha based on apomorphies or a unique combination of characters. The archosauromorph remains of the Buena Vista Formation probably represent a multi-taxonomic assemblage composed of non-archosauriform archosauromorphs and a \u2018proterosuchid-grade\u2019 animal. This assemblage does not contribute in the discussion of a Late Permian or Early Triassic age for the Buena Vista Formation, but reinforces the broad palaeobiogeographic distribution of \u2018proterosuchid grade\u2019 diapsids in Permo-Triassic beds worldwide.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/678/', ['Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'School of Geography, Earth and Environmental Sciences, University of Birmingham', u'Departamento de Evoluci\xf3n de Cuencas, Facultad de Ciencias', u'Laboratorio de Sistem\xe1tica e Historia Natural de Vertebrados, Facultad de Ciencias']]
[u'How much biomass can plant communities pack per unit volume?', ['Raphael Proulx', 'Guillaume Rheault', 'Laurianne Bonin', 'Irene T Roca', 'Charles A Martin', 'Louis Desrochers', 'Ian S Seiferling'], u'2014-12-08', u'Aboveground production in terrestrial plant communities is commonly expressed in amount of carbon, or biomass, per unit surface. Alternatively, expressing production per unit volume allows the comparison of communities by their fundamental limits in packing carbon. In this work we reanalyzed published data from more than 900 plant communities across nine ecosystems to show that standing dry biomass per unit volume (biomass packing) consistently averages around 1 kg/m3 and rarely exceeds 5 kg/m3 across ecosystem types. Furthermore, we examined how empirical relationships between aboveground production and plant species richness are modified when standing biomass is expressed per unit volume rather than surface. We propose that biomass packing emphasizes species coexistence mechanisms and is an indicator of resource use efficiency in plant communities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/677/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'D\xe9partement des Sciences de l\u2019Environnement / Canada Research Chair in Ecological Integrity, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Trois-Rivi\xe8res']]
[u'A protocol for a systematic review into consumers\u2019 attitudes, beliefs and perceived ethical obligations towards farm animal welfare', ['Beth Clark', 'Gavin B Stewart', 'Luca A Panzone', 'Lynn J Frewer'], u'2014-12-08', u'This article outlines a protocol for a systematic review into consumer attitudes, beliefs and perceived ethical obligations towards farm animal welfare, utilizing both the Theory of Reasoned Action and the Theory of Planned Behavior. A number of secondary objectives will also be explored in relation to the heterogeneity within the data relating to a number of variables known to vary within existing data including; animal species, welfare measures, socio-demographic and socio-economic characteristics. The protocol outlines the rationale, objectives, inclusion criteria, search strategy and screening processes for the meta-analysis, and the plans for data extraction, risk of bias and data synthesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/676/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Science Policy'], [u'School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, Newcastle University']]
[u'A protocol for a meta-analysis of consumers\u2019 and citizens willingness-to-pay for farm animal welfare and disease prevention', ['Beth Clark', 'Gavin B Stewart', 'Luca A Panzone', 'Lynn J Frewer'], u'2014-12-08', u"This article outlines a protocol for a meta-analysis into willingness-to-pay (WTP) for farm animal welfare. The analysis seeks to establish the public's WTP for farm animal welfare and whether there is evidence to support niche markets for products produced to designated and usually higher welfare standards. A number of secondary objectives will also be explored in relation to the heterogeneity within the data relating to a number of variables known to vary within existing data including; animal species, welfare measures, socio-demographic and socio-economic characteristics. The protocol outlines the rationale, objectives, inclusion criteria, search strategy and screening processes for the meta-analysis, and the plans for data extraction, risk of bias and data synthesis.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/675/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Science Policy'], [u'School of Agriculture, Food and Rural Development, Newcastle University']]
[u'Super-individual based model for fish migration', ['Petro Babak'], u'2014-12-08', u'One of the most remarkable characteristics of collective motion of fish is the emergence of complex migration patterns in which swimming fish are synchronised by remaining together and moving in the same direction. These migration patterns, referred to as fish schools, are often explained using individual based models (IBM\u2019s) that focus on interactions between single individuals. The IBM\u2019s appear to be realistic and robust; however, they are computationally unable to efficiently describe migration of large groups of fish. Here, an approach for developing computationally efficient super-individual based models from simple individual based models for fish migration is proposed. This approach accentuates on ecological mechanisms underlying collective motion of fish, and interaction between them; it explicitly incorporates such important mechanisms in collective motion of fish as fish school splitting and merging.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/674/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'N/A, Penn West']]
[u'Order Hemiptera: The true host involved in Mycobacterium ulcerans transmission, or is it an innocent by-stander?', ['Michael Selorm Avumegah', 'Christian Wejse'], u'2014-12-08', u'Burul ulcer disease is an infection of the subcutaneous layer. The causative organism, Mycobacterium ulcerans is a slow-growing environmental pathogen often associated with wetland and slow moving streams. One insect order believed to be associated with M.ulcerans is the order hemiptera, in which the aquatic bugs (Naucoris sp and Belostoma sp) belong. Some Mycobacteria species are endosymbiont of Acanthamoeba and laboratory experiments has confirmed this in M. ulcerans in an endemic area in Benin persisting in an amoeba for 14 days. Aquatic insect are believed to feed on amoeba, planktons, snail and fish from which they get infected. Protozoan and planktons may be the true resorvior or host of M. ulcerans but little research has been done in this area. Though many studies have found M. ulcerans in these insects, the exact mechanism of transmission to humans is still elusive. This study aims to review the available data on aquatic bugs, protozoans and other invertebrates (snail and fish) to ascertain if aquatic insects are themselves victims of the M. ulcerans through feeding.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/656/', ['Entomology', 'Microbiology', 'Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'School of Medicine, Deakin University', u'Department of Infectious Diseases, Aarhus University']]
[u'A workflow for characterizing nanoparticle monolayers for biosensors: Machine learning on real and artificial SEM images', ['Adam Hughes', 'Zhaowen Liu', 'Maryam Raftari', 'Mark E Reeves'], u'2014-12-08', u'A persistent challenge in materials science is the characterization of a large ensemble of heterogeneous nanostructures in a set of images. This often leads to practices such as manual particle counting, and sampling bias of a favorable region of the \u201cbest\u201d image. Herein, we present the open-source software, imaging criteria and workflow necessary to fully characterize an ensemble of SEM nanoparticle images. Such characterization is critical to nanoparticle biosensors, whose performance and characteristics are determined by the distribution of the underlying nanoparticle film. We utilize novel artificial SEM images to objectively compare commonly-found image processing methods through each stage of the workflow: acquistion, preprocessing, segmentation, labeling and object classification. Using the semi- supervised machine learning application, Ilastik, we demonstrate the decomposition of a nanoparticle image into particle subtypes relevant to our application: singles, dimers, flat aggregates and piles. We outline a workflow for characterizing and classifying nanoscale features on low-magnification images with thousands of nanoparticles. This work is accompanied by a repository of supplementary materials, including videos, a bank of real and artificial SEM images, and ten IPython Notebook tutorials to reproduce and extend the presented results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/671/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Biotechnology'], [u'Department of Physics, The George Washington University']]
[u'Disentangling the sense of agency and the sense of ownership in the virtual hand illusion paradigm', ['Jing Zhang', 'Wei Chen', 'Hengwei Li', 'Bernhard Hommel', 'Tifei Yuan'], u'2014-12-06', u'We used the virtual hand illusion paradigm to study the relationship between two aspects of the minimal self: the sense of agency and the sense of (body) ownership. Converging evidence for the (at least) partial independence of agency and ownership was found. For instance, sense of agency was a better predictor of individual anxiety levels than sense of ownership, and males showed stronger effects related to agency, presumably due to gender-specific attribution styles and empathy skills. Taken together, our findings suggest that the sense of agency and the sense of ownership are driven by different kinds of information and related to different psychological functions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/673/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Center for the Study of Language and Cognition, Zhejiang University', u'Department of Psychology, Shaoxing University', u'Institute for Brain and Cognition, Leiden University', u'Department of Psychology, Nanjing Normal University']]
[u'Quantifying the effect of intervertebral cartilage on neutral posture in the necks of sauropod dinosaurs', ['Michael P Taylor'], u'2014-12-06', u'Attempts to reconstruct the neutral neck posture of sauropod dinosaurs, or indeed any tetrapod, are doomed to failure when based only on the geometry of the bony cervical vertebrae. The thickness of the articular cartilage between the centra of adjacent vertebrae affects posture. It extends (raises) the neck by an amount roughly proportional to the thickness of the cartilage. It is possible to quantify the angle of extension at an intervertebral joint: it is roughly equal, in radians, to the cartilage thickness divided by the height of the zygapophyseal facets over the centre of rotation. Applying this formula to published measurements of well-known sauropod specimens suggests that if the thickness of cartilage were equal to 4.5%, 10% or 18% of centrum length, the neutral pose of the Apatosaurus louisae holotype CM 3018, would be extended by an average of 5.5, 11.8 or 21.2 degrees, respectively, at each intervertebral joint. For the Diplodocus carnegii holotype CM 84, the corresponding angles of additional extension are even greater: 8.4, 18.6 or 33.3 degrees. The neutral postures calculated for 10% cartilage \u2013 the most reasonable estimate \u2013 appear outlandish, but it must be remembered that these would not have been the habitual life postures, because animals habitually extend the base of their neck and flex the anterior part, yielding the distinctive S-curve most easily seen in birds.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/588/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol']]
[u'Head motion in children with ADHD during resting-state brain imaging', ['Xiang-zhen Kong'], u'2014-12-06', u'Although head motion during scanning has been largely considered to reflect simply technical artifacts, there is growing evidence showing that the variable of head motion reflects valuable information regarding individual\u2019s psychological and/or clinical factors. Detailed studies would not only help to deal with the head motion biases, but they also help researchers in understanding the mental disorders. In this study, children with ADHD and demographically-matched typically developing control (TDC) participants underwent rs-fMRI examination without any specific task, and six mean single head motion parameters (three translational and three rotational) and a summary motion index for each participant were obtained. We found that patients with ADHD showed specific patterns of head motion during scanning: motion was significantly increased in the ADHD group, which was mainly contributed by the motion around and along the superior-to-inferior direction. Furthermore, the cross-validation classification analyses showed that the head motion could accurately distinguish children with ADHD from the healthy controls. These results suggest that head motion during scanning reflects useful information about the participants and accounting for head motion from MRI data may be helpful for ADHD diagnosing and treatment with neuroimaging.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/218/', ['Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning, Beijing Normal University']]
[u'DCEMRI.jl: A fast, validated, open source toolkit for dynamic contrast enhanced MRI analysis', ['David S Smith', 'Xia Li', 'Lori R Arlinghaus', 'Thomas E Yankeelov', 'E. Brian Welch'], u'2014-12-06', u'We present a fast, validated, open-source toolkit for processing dynamic contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (DCE-MRI) data. We validate it against the Quantitative Imaging Biomarkers Alliance (QIBA) Standard and Extended Tofts-Kety phantoms and find near perfect recovery in the absence of noise, with an estimated 10-20x speedup in run time compared to existing tools. To explain the observed trends in the fitting errors, we present an argument about the conditioning of the Jacobian in the limit of small and large parameter values. We also demonstrate its use on an in vivo data set to measure performance on a realistic application. For a 192 x 192 breast image, we achieved run times of < 1 s. Finally, we analyze run times scaling with problem size and find that the run time per voxel scales as O(N1.9), where N is the number of time points in the tissue concentration curve. DCEMRI.jl was much faster than any other analysis package tested and produced comparable accuracy, even in the presence of noise.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/670/', ['Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Radiology and Radiological Sciences, Vanderbilt University', u'Institute of Imaging Science, Vanderbilt University', u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, Vanderbilt University', u'Department of Physics and Astronomy, Vanderbilt University', u'Department of Cancer Biology, Vanderbilt University']]
[u'Nephila clavata L. Koch, the Joro Spider of East Asia, newly recorded from North America (Araneae: Nephilidae)', ['E. Richard Hoebeke', 'Wesley Huffmaster', 'Byron J Freeman'], u'2014-12-06', u'Nephila clavata L. Koch, known as the Joro spider and native to East Asia (Japan, China, Korea, and Taiwan), is newly reported from North America. Specimens from several locations in northeast Georgia were collected from around residential properties in Barrow, Jackson, and Madison counties in late October and early November 2014. These are the first confirmed records of the species in the New World. Our collections, along with confirmed images provided by private citizens, suggest the Joro spider is established in northeast Georgia. Genomic sequence data for the COI gene obtained from two specimens conforms to published sequences for N. clavata, providing additional confirmation of species identity. Known collection records are listed and mapped using geocoding. Our observations are summarized along with published background information on biology in Asia and we hypothesize on the invasion history and mode of introduction into North America. Recognition features are given and photographic images of the male and female are provided to aid in their differentiation from the one native species of the genus (Nephila clavipes) in North America.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/632/', ['Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Genetics', 'Taxonomy', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Georgia Museum of Natural History and Department of Entomology, University of Georgia', u'Georgia Southern University', u'Georgia Museum of Natural History and Odum School of Ecology, University of Georgia']]
[u'A \u03b2-mannanase from Fusarium oxysporum SS-25 via solid state fermentation on brewer spent grain: Medium optimization by statistical tools, kinetic characterization and its applications', ['Susheel Singh Rana', 'Chetna Janveja', 'Sanjeev Kumar Soni'], u'2014-12-05', u'This study concerned with the optimization of fermentation parameters for the hyper production of mannanase from Fusarium oxysporum SS-25 employing two step statistical strategy and kinetic characterization of crude enzyme preparation. The Plackett-Burman design was first used to screen out the important factors in the culture medium which were found to be: 20% (w/w) wheat bran, 2% (w/w) each of potato peels, soybean meal, malt extract, 1% tryptone, 0.14% NH4SO4, 0.2% KH2PO4, 0.0002% ZnSO4, 0.0005% FeSO4, 0.01% MnSO4, 0.012% SDS, 0.03% NH4Cl, 0.1% NaNO3 in brewer\u2019s spent grain based medium with 50% moisture content, inoculated with 2.8\xd7107 spores and incubated at 30oC for 6 days. Out of twenty seven factors, four variables including soybean meal, FeSO4, MnSO4 and NaNO3 were selected to study the interactive effects and optimum level of these variables in central composite design of response surface methodology. The final mannanase yield was 193 IU/g which was active at broader temperature and pH range and could result in 26.6% reduction in kappa number with 4.93% higher tear index and 1% increase in brightness when used to treat the wheat straw based kraft pulp. The hydrolytic potential of enzyme was demonstrated on both locust bean gum and guar gum.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/669/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biotechnology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Panjab University']]
[u'DrugOn: a fully integrated pharmacophore modeling and structure optimization toolkit', ['Dimitrios Vlachakis', 'Paraskevas Fakourelis', 'Christos Makris', 'Sophia Kossida'], u'2014-12-05', u'During the past years pharmacophore modeling has become one of the key components in computer-aided drug design and generally in modern drug discovery. DrugOn is a fully interactive pipeline designed to exploit the advantages of modern programming and overcome the command line barrier with two friendly environments for the user (either novice or experienced in the field of Computer Aided Drug Design) to perform pharmacophore modeling through an efficient combination of the PharmACOphore, Gromacs, Ligbuilder and PDB2PQR suites. Our platform features a novel workflow that guides the user through each logical step of the iterative 3D structural optimization setup and drug design process. For the pharmacophore modeling we are focusing on either the characteristics of the receptor or the full molecular system, including a set of selected ligands. DrugOn can be freely downloaded from our dedicated server system at www.bioacademy.gr/bioinformatics/drugon/', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/668/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Pharmacology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Bioinformatics & Medical Informatics Team, Biomedical Research Foundation, Academy of Athens', u'Computer Engineering and Informatics Department, University of Patras', u"IMGT, Laboratoire d'ImmunoG\xe9n\xe9tique Mol\xe9culaire, Institut de G\xe9n\xe9tique Humaine"]]
[u'Leadership, management and outcomes of wildlife reintroduction programs: Findings from the Sea Eagle Recovery Project', ['Alexandra E. Sutton'], u'2014-12-05', u'Wildlife reintroductions and translocations are statistically unlikely to succeed. Nevertheless, they remain a critical part of conservation because they are the only way to actively restore a species into a habitat from which it has been extirpated. Past efforts to improve these practices have attributed the low success rate to failures in the biological knowledge (e.g. ignorance of social behavior, poor release site selection), or to the inherent challenges of reinstating a species into an area where threats have already driven it to local extinction. Such research presumes that the only way to improve reintroduction outcomes is through improved biological knowledge. This emphasis on biological solutions may have caused researchers to overlook the potential influence of other factors on reintroduction outcomes. I employed a grounded theory approach to study the leadership and management of a successful reintroduction program (the Sea Eagle Recovery Project in Scotland, UK) and identify four critical managerial elements that I theorize may have contributed to the successful outcome of this 50-year reintroduction. These elements are: 1. Leadership & Management: Small, dedicated team of accessible experts who provide strong political and scientific advocacy ("champions") for the project. 2. Hierarchy & Autonomy: Hierarchical management structure that nevertheless permits high individual autonomy. 3. Goals & Evaluation: Formalized goal-setting and regular, critical evaluation of the project\u2019s progress toward those goals. 4. Adaptive Public Relations: Adaptive outreach campaigns that are open, transparent, inclusive (esp. linguistically), and culturally relevant', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/667/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Nicholas School of the Environment, Duke University']]
[u'An assessment of fracture resistance of three composite resin core build-up materials on three prefabricated non-metallic posts, cemented in endodontically treated teeth: An in vitro study', ['Lalit Kumar', 'Bhupinder Pal', 'Prashant Pujari'], u'2014-12-05', u'Endodontically treated teeth with excessive loss of tooth structure would require to be restored with post and core to enhance the strength and durability of the tooth and to achieve retention for the restoration. The non-metallic posts have of a superior esthetic quality. Various core materials can be used to build-up cores on the posts placed in endodontically treated teeth. The core materials would show variation in their bonding with the non-metallic posts and the remaining tooth structure. They will also have an effect on the strength and resistance to fracture of the remaining tooth structure. Aims: The aim of the study was to assess the fracture resistance of three composite resin core build-up materials on three prefabricated non-metallic posts, cemented in extracted endodontically treated teeth. Material and methods: Forty five freshly extracted maxillary central incisors of approximately of the same size and shape were selected for the study. Student\u2019s unpaired \u2018t\u2019 test was also used to analyse and compare each group with the other groups individually, and decide whether their comparisons were statistically significant. Results: Luxacore showed the highest fracture resistance among the three core build-up materials with all the three posts systems. Ti-core had intermediate values of fracture resistance and Lumiglass had least values of fracture resistance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/666/', ['Dentistry'], [u'Department of Prosthodontics, Dr Harvansh Singh Judge Institute of Dental Sciences, Panjab University', u'Private Practise', u'Department of Orthodontics, Pacific Dental College']]
[u'The impact of stress on financial decision-making varies as a function of depression and anxiety symptoms', ['Oliver J Robinson', 'Rebecca Bond', 'Jonathan P Roiser'], u'2014-12-04', u'Stress can precipitate the onset of mood and anxiety disorders. This may occur, at least in part, via a modulatory effect of stress on decision-making. Some individuals are, however, more resilient to the effects of stress than others. The mechanisms underlying such vulnerability differences are nevertheless unknown. In this study we attempted to begin quantifying individual differences in vulnerability by exploring the effect of experimentally induced stress on decision-making. Threat of unpredictable shock was used to induce stress in healthy volunteers (N=47) using a within-subjects, within-session design, and its impact on a financial decision-making task (the Iowa Gambling Task) was assessed alongside anxious and depressive symptomatology. As expected, participants learned to select advantageous decks and avoid disadvantageous decks. Importantly, we found that stress provoked a pattern of harm-avoidant behaviour (decreased selection of disadvantageous decks) in individuals with low levels of trait anxiety. By contrast, individuals with high trait anxiety demonstrated the opposite pattern: stress-induced risk-seeking (increased selection of disadvantageous decks). These contrasting influences of stress depending on mood and anxiety symptoms might provide insight into vulnerability to common mental illness. In particular, we speculate that those who adopt a more harm-avoidant strategy may be better able to regulate their exposure to further environmental stress, reducing their susceptibility to mood and anxiety disorders. The threat of shock paradigm we employed might therefore hold promise as a \u2018stress-test\u2019 for determining individual vulnerability to mood and anxiety disorders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/664/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London']]
[u'A surge of p-values between 0.041 and 0.049 in recent decades (but negative results are increasing rapidly too)', ['Joost de Winter', 'Dimitra Dodou'], u'2014-12-04', u'It is known that statistically significant (positive) results are more likely to be published than non-significant (negative) results. However, it has been unclear whether any increasing prevalence of positive results is stronger in the \u201csofter\u201d disciplines (social sciences) than in the \u201charder\u201d disciplines (physical sciences), and whether the prevalence of negative results is decreasing over time. Using Scopus, we searched the abstracts of papers published between 1990 and 2013, and measured longitudinal trends of multiple expressions of positive versus negative results, including p-values between 0.041 and 0.049 versus p-values between 0.051 and 0.059, textual reporting of \u201csignificant difference\u201d versus \u201cno significant difference\u201d, and the reporting of p < 0.05 versus p > 0.05. We found no support for a \u201chierarchy of sciences\u201d with physical sciences at the top and social sciences at the bottom. However, we found large differences in reporting practices between disciplines, with p-values between 0.041 and 0.049 over 1990\u20132013 being 65.7 times more prevalent in the biological sciences than in the physical sciences. p-values near the significance threshold of 0.05 on either side have both increased but with those p-values between 0.041 and 0.049 having increased to a greater extent (2013-to-1990 ratio of the percentage of papers = 10.3) than those between 0.051 and 0.059 (ratio = 3.6). Contradictorily, p < 0.05 has increased more slowly than p > 0.05 (ratios = 1.4 and 4.8, respectively), while the use of \u201csignificant difference\u201d has shown only a modest increase compared to \u201cno significant difference\u201d (ratios = 1.5 and 1.1, respectively). We also compared reporting of significance in the United States, Asia, and Europe and found that the results are too inconsistent to draw conclusions on cross-cultural differences in significance reporting. We argue that the observed longitudinal trends are caused by negative factors, such as an increase of questionable research practices, but also by positive factors, such as an increase of quantitative research and structured reporting.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/447/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of BioMechanical Engineering, Delft University of Technology']]
[u'Introduction to Meta Analysis', ['Arindam Basu'], u'2014-12-04', u'Meta analysis refers to secondary data analysis where information from individual research articles are synthesised to arrive at a summary estimate. Meta analysis thus refers to several related steps of framing a question or a problem, formulating search strategies, collection of journal articles or primary studies, abstraction of data from the studies, critical appraisal of studies, judging homogeneity of studies, and synthesis of information from them. In this paper, we describe the key processes of how to conduct each of these steps to conduct a meta analysis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/665/', ['Evidence Based Medicine', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Health Sciences, University of Canterbury']]
[u'GROM-RD: Resolving genomic biases to improve read depth detection of copy number variants', ['Sean D Smith', 'Joseph K Kawash', 'Andrey Grigoriev'], u'2014-12-04', u'Amplifications or deletions of genome segments, known as copy number variants (CNVs), have been associated with many diseases. Read depth analysis of next-generation sequencing (NGS) is an essential method of detecting CNVs. However, genome read coverage is frequently distorted by various biases of NGS platforms, which reduce predictive capabilities of existing approaches. Additionally, the use of read depth tools has been somewhat hindered by imprecise breakpoint identification. We developed GROM-RD, an algorithm that analyzes multiple biases in read coverage to detect CNVs in NGS data. We found non-uniform variance across distinct GC regions after using existing GC bias correction methods and developed a novel approach to normalize such variance. Although complex and repetitive genome segments complicate CNV detection, GROM-RD adjusts for repeat bias and uses a two-pipeline masking approach to detect CNVs in complex and repetitive segments while improving sensitivity in less complicated regions. To overcome a typical weakness of RD methods, GROM-RD employs a CNV search using size-varying overlapping windows to improve breakpoint resolution. We compared our method to two widely used programs based on read depth methods, CNVnator and RDXplorer, and observed improved CNV detection and breakpoint accuracy for GROM-RD. GROM-RD is available at http://grigoriev.rutgers.edu/software/', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/663/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Biology, Center for Computational and Integrative Biology, Rutgers University']]
[u'Validation of reference genes for gene expression studies in non viruliferous and viruliferous Frankliniella occidentalis (Thysanoptera: Thripidae)', ['Chunxiao Chunxiao Yang', 'Hui Li', 'Huipeng Pan', 'Yabin Ma', 'Deyong Zhang', 'Yong Liu', 'Zhanhong Zhang', 'Changying Zheng', 'Dong Chu'], u'2014-12-04', u'Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) is a powerful technique for measuring and evaluating gene expressions during different biological processes. To facilitate gene expression studies, normalization with respect to stable housekeeping genes (HKGs) is mandatory. The western flower thrips, Frankliniella occidentalis (Thysanoptera: Thripidae), the main vector of Tomato spotted wilt virus (TSWV), is a very destructive invasive species. In this study, expression profiles of 11 candidate HKGs, including \u03b2-actin  (Actin), \u03b1-tubulin (Tubulin), elongation factor 1 \u03b1 (EF1A), vacuolar-typeH+-ATPase (ATPase), NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase (NADH), heat shock protein 60  (HSP60), heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), heat shock protein 90 (HSP90), ribosomal protein l32  (RPL32), 28S ribosomal RNA (28S), and 18S ribosomal RNA (18S), from no nviruliferous and viruliferous F. occidentalis were investigated. Four distinct algorithms, geNorm, Normfinder, BestKeeper, and the \u0394Ct method, were employed to determine the performance of these genes as endogenous controls under the virus condition. Based on RefFinder, which integrates all four analytical algorithms to compare and rank the candidates, HSP70 , HSP60, EF1A, and RPL32 were the most stable housekeeping genes. This work is the initial first step to establish a standardized qRT-PCR analysis in F. occidentalis. Additionally, this study lays a foundation for the research in the interactions between TSWV and F. occidentalis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/662/', ['Entomology', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Hunan Academy of Agricultural Sciences, Institute of Plant Protection', u'Qingdao Agricultural University, College of Agronomy and Plant Protection', u'University of Kentucky, Department of Entomology', u'Hunan Vegetable Institute, Hunan Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'Oceanographic influences on a global whale shark hotspot in southern Mozambique', ['Christoph A Rohner', 'Scarla J Weeks', 'Anthony J Richardson', 'Simon J Pierce', 'Marites M Magno-Canto', 'Gene Carl Feldman', 'Geremy Cliff', 'Michael J Roberts'], u'2014-12-04', u'Coastal aggregations of whale sharks Rhincodon typus around the world are generally seasonal and driven by prey availability. At a major aggregation site in southern Mozambique, whale sharks are, somewhat unusually, present and seen feeding throughout the year. We investigated potential oceanographic mechanisms that may regulate prey availability on the narrow regional shelf and hence account for this year-round whale shark hotspot. We used regional aerial surveys to show that the highest density of whale sharks (29 sharks 100 km-1) was near Praia do Tofo (23.85\u02daS, 35.55\u02daE). To investigate how the regional oceanography influences the enrichment of shelf waters, we used 5- and 9-year time series of hourly underwater temperature, and 10-year time series of remotely-sensed sea surface temperature, chlorophyll-a concentration and sea surface height anomaly data. We found that upwelling of cool, nutrient-rich water was common in the region throughout the year and describe three mechanisms, all of which are likely to stimulate productivity: (1) Shelf-edge upwelling and subsequent elevated plankton biomass in coastal waters north of Praia do Tofo, driven by the interaction of southward-propagating mesoscale eddies with the narrow shelf. In situ temperature data show that this interaction frequently leads to intense upwelling, up to 7.5\u02daC daily amplitude, throughout the year, but is most pronounced in spring/summer. (2) Divergent upwelling south of Praia do Tofo driven by the current flow along the shelf edge as it diverges from the coastline. This upwelling can occur throughout the year and is similar in intensity, but less frequent, than the shelf-edge upwelling. (3) Vortex-driven upwelling by the Delagoa Bight lee-eddy, which may increase phytoplankton biomass in the Bight and also force a northward coastal current that transports recently-upwelled water towards Praia do Tofo. We hypothesise that whale sharks aggregate in coastal waters around Praia do Tofo throughout the year because these upwelling mechanisms contribute to year-round productivity in the region.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/661/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Biophysical Oceanography Group, School of Geography, Planning and Environmental Management, The University of Queensland', u'Marine Megafauna Association', u'Oceans and Atmosphere Flagship, CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research', u'Centre for Applications in Natural Resource Mathematics (CARM), School of Mathematics and Physics, The University of Queensland', u'Wild Me', u'NASA/Goddard Space Flight Centre, Code 614.8', u'KwaZulu-Natal Sharks Board', u'Biomedical Resource Unit, University of KwaZulu-Natal', u'Dept Ichthyology and Fisheries Science, Rhodes University']]
[u'The mechanisms of intertidal fish coexistence: a model', ['Chris J Barrett', 'Magnus L Johnson', 'Susan L Hull'], u'2014-12-03', u'Research into the ecology of intertidal fishes of the U.K. appears to be lacking, reportedly due to the mobility and cryptic nature of the more common species. However, some intertidal fishes contribute to the diets of commercially important species such as cod (Gadus morhua), haddock (Melanogrammus aeglefinus) and near-threatened European otter (Lutra lutra). The current study contains the first comprehensive research into the ecology of intertidal fishes from the English, Yorkshire coast and Welsh, Anglesey coast, identifying and addressing the mechanisms which allow for their coexistence. Seven mechanisms were identified which promote interspecific fish coexistence. It was found that coexistence can occur when: (I) fish diversity on a shore is low, thus minimising high degrees of co-occurrence within pools, (II) co-occurrence on shores (at tidal height level) is minimal and when fishes do co-occur, they are of similar sizes thus reducing size-dominated hierarchies, (III) the significant variables which predict fish presences differ, (IV) there is an abundance of shelter/protection readily available, which reduces the competition to access such features, (V) morphology is such, that for the majority of the year, it is more profitable for the piscivorous fishes to predate on food items other than fish, (VI) competition for prey items is reduced, when variability of resources is high, and (VII) there is a difference in the most targeted prey items between fish species, despite some overlap in targeted prey items.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/660/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'CEFAS', u'CEMS, University of Hull']]
[u'Reducing workplace burnout: The relative benefits of cardiovascular and resistance exercise', ['Rachel J Bretland', 'Einar B Thorsteinsson'], u'2014-12-03', u'Objectives. With 43% of Australians experiencing occupational burnout therapies for burnout reduction are paramount to organisational efficiency. Exercise has potential to provide a multilevel and cost effective burnout intervention. The current study aims to extend the literature by comparing cardiovascular with resistance exercise to assess their relative effectiveness against well-being, perceived stress, and burnout. Design. Participants were 49 (36 females and 13 males) previously inactive volunteers ranging in age from 19 to 68 that completed a four week exercise program of either cardiovascular, resistance, or no exercise (control). Method. Participants were measured against the Subjective Exercise Experience Scale, the Perceived Stress Scale, and the Maslach Burnout Inventory. Results. After four weeks of exercise participants had greater positive well-being and personal accomplishment, and concomitantly less psychological distress, perceived stress, and emotional exhaustion. Cardiovascular exercise was found to increase well-being and decrease psychological distress, perceived stress, and emotional exhaustion. Resistance training was noticeably effective in increasing well-being and personal accomplishment and to reduce perceived stress. Our preliminary findings revealed large effect sizes suggesting that exercise may be an effective treatment for burnout. However, given a small sample size further research needs to be conducted. Conclusion. Different types of exercise may thus help protect against burnout as exercise seems to increase well-being and personal accomplishment while decreasing psychological distress, perceived stress, and emotional exhaustion. Organisations that want to address burnout can assist by improving their employees\u2019 access to regular exercise programs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/659/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychology, School of Behavioural, Cognitive and Social Sciences, University of New England']]
[u'Ontogenetic scaling patterns and functional anatomy of the pelvic limb musculature in emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae)', ['Luis P Lamas', 'Russell P Main', 'John R. Hutchinson'], u'2014-12-03', u'Emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) are exclusively terrestrial, bipedal and cursorial ratites with some similar biomechanical characteristics to humans. Their growth rates are impressive as their body mass increases eighty-fold from hatching to adulthood whilst maintaining the same mode of locomotion throughout life. These ontogenetic characteristics stimulate biomechanical questions about the strategies that allow emus to cope with their rapid growth and locomotion, which can be partly addressed via scaling (allometric) analysis of morphology. In this study we have collected pelvic limb anatomical data (muscle architecture, tendon length, tendon mass and bone lengths) and calculated muscle physiological cross sectional area (PCSA) and average tendon cross sectional area from emus across three ontogenetic stages (n=17, body masses from 3.6 to 42 kg). The data were analysed by reduced major axis regression to determine how these biomechanically relevant aspects of morphology scaled with body mass. Muscle mass and PCSA showed a marked trend towards positive allometry (26 and 27 out of 34 muscles respectively) and fascicle length showed a more mixed scaling pattern. The long tendons of the main digital flexors scaled with positive allometry for all characteristics whilst other tendons demonstrated a less clear scaling pattern. Finally, the two longer bones of the limb (tibiotarsus and tarsometatarsus) also exhibited positive allometry for length and the two others (femur and first phalanx of digit III) had trends towards isometry. These results indicate that emus experience a relative increase in their muscle force-generating capacities, as well as potentially increasing the force-sustaining capacities of their tendons, as they grow. Furthermore, we have clarified anatomical descriptions and provided illustrations of the pelvic limb muscle-tendon units in emus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/508/', ['Bioengineering', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Structure and Motion Laboratory, Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College', u'Department of Basic Medical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine and Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, Purdue University']]
[u'Effects of forest fragmentation on bird communities in NW Ethiopia', ['Haile Yineger', 'Jane M Hughes'], u'2014-12-03', u'Anthropogenic disturbance regimes in areas that were once large continuous habitats have been major drivers of habitat fragmentation and loss which in turn form the largest worldwide threat to avian biodiversity. Studies suggest that functional trait based approaches provide better understanding of fragmentation effects on ecological processes in human-modified landscapes. However, research on these thematic areas is limited in many tropical regions, such as Ethiopia. In this study, we evaluated sensitivity of bird communities and functional groups to fragmentation processes in Ethiopia. Standard point counts were used to survey birds in 16 remnant forest patches of variable sizes and degrees of isolation. The information theoretic model selection approach was used for precise understanding of avian functional group responses to habitat loss and fragmentation. Results showed strong impacts of forest loss and fragmentation on forest specialists, insectivores, frugivores, open nesters, understorey nesters and resident birds. Protection and restoration of the remnant forest patches may help mitigate the negative effects of fragmentation on such specialist bird functional groups.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/658/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Griffith School of Environment, Griffith University']]
[u'Ecological correlates to cranial morphology in Leporids (Mammalia, Lagomorpha)', ['Brian P Kraatz', 'Nicholas Bumacod', 'Emma Sherratt', 'Mathew J Wedel'], u'2014-12-03', u'The mammalian order Lagomorpha has been the subject of many morphometric studies aimed at understanding the relationship between form and function as it relates to locomotion, primarily in postcranial morphology. The leporid cranial skeleton, however, may also reveal information about their ecology, particularly locomotion and vision. Here we investigate the relationship between cranial shape and the degree of facial tilt with locomotion (cursoriality, saltation, and burrowing) within crown leporids. Our results suggest that facial tilt is more pronounced in cursors and saltators compared to generalists. However cranial shape does not differ significantly among these locomotor groups, nor does it differ significantly between species that burrow and those that do not.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/657/', ['Ecology', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Department of Anatomy, Western University of Health Sciences', u'College of Dental Medicine, Western University of Health Sciences', u'Department of Ecology, Evolution, and Organismal Biology, Iowa State University', u'College of Podiatric Medicine, Western University of Health Sciences', u'College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Pacific, Western University of Health Sciences']]
[u'Scientific report: Training workshop interdisciplinary life sciences', ['Gordon Akudibillah', 'Sonja E.M. Boas', 'Benoit M. Carreres', 'Marchien Dallinga', 'Aalt-Jan van Dijk', 'Shishir K Gupta', 'Alexander Hunt', 'Annika Jacobsen', 'Kasbawati Kasbawati', 'Roeland R.M.H. Merks', 'Jaap Molenaar', 'Gosse GB Overal', 'M Palm', 'Matthijs JL Perenboom', 'Mridula Prasad', 'Maarten Reijnders', 'Elisabeth G Rens', 'Brendan M Ryback', 'Linda Scheider', 'Mugdha Srivastava', 'Marcel A.M. Willemsen', 'Xunxun Wu', 'Antonios Zagaris'], u'2014-12-02', u'This preprint is the outcome of the \u201cTraining Workshop Interdisciplinary Life Sciences\u201d, held in October 2013 in the Lorentz Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. The motivation to organize this event stems from the following considerations: The enormous progress in laboratory techniques and facilities leads to the availability of huge amounts of data at all levels of complexity (molecules, cells, tissues, organs, organisms, populations, ecosystems). Especially data at the cellular level reveal details of life processes we were unconscious of until recently. However, it becomes clear that huge amounts of data alone do not automatically lead to understanding. The data explosion in Life Sciences teaches one lesson: life processes are of a highly intricate and integrative nature. To really understand the dynamic processes in living organisms one must integrate experimental data sets in quantitative and predictive models. Only then one may hope to grasp the functioning of these complex systems and be able to convert information in understanding. In the field of physics, for instance, this strong interaction between experiment and theory is already common practice since centuries, culminating in the 20th century being called the \u2019Century of Physics\u2019. In contrast to physics, the complex nature of the Life Sciences forces us to work in an interdisciplinary fashion. The necessary expertise is available, but scattered over many scientific disciplines. Only the combined efforts of biologists, chemists, mathematicians, physicists, engineers, and informaticians will lead to progress in tackling the huge challenge of understanding the complexity of life. Researchers in the Life Sciences often focus their research on a rather narrow research field. However, the majority of the upcoming generation of researchers in the Life Sciences should be trained to expand their skills, becoming able to tackle complex, multi-dimensional systems. The knowledge they have to incorporate in their research will stem from a diverse range of disciplines, So, they should be trained to integrate a broad range of modelling approaches in order to deduce quantitative, predictive and often multi-scale models from highly diverse data sets. Present curricula in the Life Sciences hardly offer this kind of training yet. This workshop intends to start filling this gap.\nThree teams worked on the following open problems: 1) Modeling the influence of temperature on the Regulation of flowering time in Arabidopsis thaliana; 2) Validation of computational models of angiogenesis to experimental data; 3) Reconstructing the gene network that regulates branching in Tomato. This preprint bundles the reports of the three teams.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/654/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Oregon State University', u'Life Sciences Group, Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica', u'Department of Agrotechnology and Food Sciences, Wageningen University', u'Ocular Angiogenesis Group, department of ophthalmology, Academic Medical Center', u'Biometris, Department for Mathematical and Statistical Methods, Wageningen University', u'Department of Bioinformatics, Biocenter, University of W\xfcrzburg, Am Hubland, 97074', u'Department of Mathematics, University of Kaiserslautern', u'Centre for Integrative Bioinformatics (IBIVU), VU University Amsterdam', u'Department of Mathematics, Bandung Institute of Technology', u'Mathematical Institute, Leiden University', u'Department of Mathematics, Free University', u'Department of Neurology, Leiden University Medical Center', u'Biostatistics and Data Management group, Fondazione Edmund Fmach', u'Laboratory of Systems and Synthetic Biology, Department of Agrotechnology and Food Sciences, Wageningen University', u'Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zurich', u'Faculty of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Behavioural Ecology and Self-organization, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen', u'Department of Bioinformatics, Biocenter, University of W\xfcrzburg', u'Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Academic Medical Center', u'Department of Mechanical Engineering, Eindhoven University of Technology', u'Department of Applied Mathematics, University of Twente']]
[u'An explanation of the relationship between mass, metabolic rate and characteristic length for placental mammals', ['Charles Frasier'], u'2014-12-02', u'The Mass, Metabolism and Length Explanation (MMLE) was advanced in 1984 to explain the relationship between metabolic rate and body mass for birds and mammals. This paper reports on a modernized version of MMLE. MMLE deterministically predicts the absolute value of Basal Metabolic Rate (BMR) and body mass for individual animals. MMLE is thus distinct from other examinations of these topics that use species-averaged data to estimate the parameters in a statistically best fit power law relationship such as BMR = a(body mass)b. Beginning with the proposition that BMR is proportional to the number of mitochondria in an animal, two primary equations are derived that predict BMR and body mass as functions of an individual animal\u2019s characteristic length and sturdiness factor. The characteristic length is a measurable skeletal length associated with an animal\u2019s means of propulsion. The sturdiness factor expresses how sturdy or gracile an animal is. Eight other parameters occur in the equations that vary little among animals in the same phylogenetic group. The present paper modernizes MMLE by explicitly treating Froude and Strouhal dynamic similarity of mammals\u2019 skeletal musculature, revising the treatment of BMR and using new data to estimate numerical values for the parameters that occur in the equations. A mass and length data set with 575 entries from the orders Rodentia, Chiroptera, Artiodactyla, Carnivora, Perissodactyla and Proboscidae is used. A BMR and mass data set with 436 entries from the orders Rodentia, Chiroptera, Artiodactyla and Carnivora is also used. With the estimated parameter values MMLE can exactly predict every BMR and mass datum from the BMR and mass data set with no error and thus no unexplained variance. Furthermore MMLE can exactly predict every body mass and length datum from the mass and length data set with no error and thus no unexplained variance. Whether or not MMLE can simultaneously exactly predict an individual animal\u2019s BMR and body mass given its characteristic length awaits analysis of a data set that simultaneously reports all three of these items for individual animals. However for many of the addressed phylogenetic homogeneous groups, MMLE can predict the exponent obtained by regression analysis of the BMR and mass data using the exponent obtained by regression analysis of the mass and length data. This argues that MMLE may be able to accurately simultaneously predict BMR and mass for an individual animal.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/437/', ['Biophysics', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Organizationally unaffiliated']]
[u'Insight into Shiga toxin genes encoded by Escherichia coli O157 from whole genome sequencing', ['Philip Ashton', 'Neil Perry', 'Richard J Ellis', 'Liljana Petrovska', 'John Wain', 'Kathie Grant', 'Claire Jenkins', 'Tim Dallman'], u'2014-12-01', u'The ability of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) to cause severe illness in humans is determined by multiple host factors and bacterial characteristics, including Shiga toxin (Stx) subtype. Given the link between Stx2a subtype and disease severity, we sought to identify the stx subtypes present in whole genome sequences (WGS) of 444 isolates of STEC O157. Difficulties in assembling the stx genes in some strains, were overcome by using two complementary bioinformatics methods; mapping and de novo assembly. We compared the WGS analysis with the results obtained using a PCR approach and investigated the diversity within and between the subtypes. All strains of STEC O157 in this study had stx1a, stx2a or stx2c or a combination of these three genes. There was over 99% (442/444) concordance between PCR and WGS. When common source strains were excluded, 236/349 strains of STEC O157 had multiple copies of different Stx subtypes and 54 had multiple copies of the same Stx subtype. Of those strains harbouring multiple copies of the same Stx subtype, 33 had variants between the alleles while 21 had identical copies. Strains harbouring Stx2a only were most commonly found to have multiple alleles of the same subtype (42%). Both the PCR and WGS approach to stx subtyping provided a good level of sensitivity and specificity. In addition, the WGS data also showed there were a significant proportion of strains harbouring multiple alleles of the same Stx subtype associated with clinical disease in England.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/652/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Gastrointestinal Bacteria Reference Unit, Public Health England', u'Animal Health and Veterinary Laboratories Agency', u'Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia']]
[u'No evidence for differential biomass and mineral content in adult plants grown from dimorphic seeds of Suaeda aralocaspica', ['Lei Wang', 'Chang-Yan Tian', 'Zhen-Ying Huang'], u'2014-12-01', u'Producing two or more types of seeds by a single plant is known as seed heteromorphism. Comparison of seed traits or growth between plants grown from heteromorphic seeds has received considerable attention. However, information is scarce regarding the comparison of mineral content of adult plants from heteromorphic seeds. Here we present biomass and mineral profiles (Nitrogen, Phosphorus, Potassium, Sodium and Chloride) of adult plants grown from dimorphic seeds (non-dormant brown seeds and black seeds with non-deep physiological dormancy) of annual desert halophyte Suaeda aralocaspica at different levels of nutrient and salinity. The results showed that, although nutrient and salinity could affect dry weigh and mineral content, seed-dimorphic plants of S. aralocaspica did not show significant difference under the same experimental conditions. This study is one of the few to compare the physiological responses between seed-heteromorphic plants and suggests that mineral status is exactly consistent with growth performance for these plants.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/650/', ['Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Desert and Oasis Ecology, Xinjiang Institute of Ecology and Geography, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'State Key Laboratory of Vegetation and Environmental Change, Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Comparing size of morphospace occupation among extant and cretaceous fossil freshwater mussels using Elliptical Fourier Analysis', ['Matt Burton-Kelly', 'Joseph H Hartman'], u'2014-12-01', u'Background. Freshwater mussels of superfamily Unionoidea are a diverse group with an evolutionary history of at least 360 million years. Many fossil and modern species exhibit a generally unsculptured, roughly elliptical shell outline. Such morphology results in difficulties when attempting to identify or classify fossil material, as only hard parts are preserved. Several latest-Cretaceous fossil localities over a small geographic area in southwestern North Dakota contain poorly preserved edentulous freshwater mussels that effectively lack all but shell outlines. This paper discusses methods that were used to attempt to determine how many fossil taxa were present in one of these assemblages. Methods. Elliptical Fourier Analysis was performed on two-dimensional shell outlines of both edentulous fossils and modern taxa to create Fourier scores representing outline shape. Morphospace occupation, or the amount of variation within a sample of shell outlines, was calculated using two methods: within-group dispersion and sum of variance. Morphospace occupation was compared among each of the modern taxa (at both generic and specific levels) and fossil assemblage using confidence intervals, ANOVA, and Tukey\u2019s HSD tests. Results. The amount of outline variation within the fossil assemblage tested is more than some modern genera and species and less than others. Morphospace occupation and confidence intervals are defined for the modern taxa (nine genera and 24 species) that were examined. Discussion. Although results were inconclusive, discussion points are presented to drive future research. Methodological improvements are suggested including choice of extant (comparative) genera, ontogeny and size, morphological plasticity, phenotypic convergence, taphonomic deformation, and general geometric morphometrics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/626/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Energy and Environmental Research Center, University of North Dakota', u'Harold Hamm School of Geology and Geological Engineering, University of North Dakota']]
[u'Trait correlates of distribution trends in the Odonata of Britain and Ireland: Southern species benefit from climate warming', ['Gary D Powney', 'Steve SA Cham', 'Dave Smallshire', 'Nick J B Isaac'], u'2014-11-29', u'A major challenge in ecology is understanding what enables certain species to persist, while others decline, in response to environmental change. Trait-based comparative analyses are useful in this regard as they can help identify the key drivers of decline, and highlight traits that promote resistance to change. Despite their popularity trait-based comparative analyses tend to focus on explaining variation in range shift and extinction risk, seldom being applied to actual measures of species decline. Furthermore they have tended to be taxonomically restricted to birds, mammals, plants and butterflies. Here we utilise a novel approach to estimate trends for the Odonata in Britain and Ireland, and examine trait correlates of these trends using a recently available trait dataset. We found the dragonfly fauna in Britain and Ireland has undergone considerable change between 1980 and 2012, with 33 and 39% of species showing significant declines and increases respectively. Distribution type was the key trait associated with these trends, where southern species showed significantly higher trends than widespread and northern species. We believe this reflects the impact of climate change as the increased ambient temperature in Britain and Ireland better suits species that are adapted to warmer conditions. We conclude that northern species are particularly vulnerable to climate change due to the combined pressures of a decline in climate suitability, and competition from species that were previously limited by lower thermal tolerance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/648/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Entomology'], [u'Biological Records Centre, NERC Centre for Ecology & Hydrology', u'British Dragonfly Society, (BDS)', u'Dragonfly Conservation Group, British Dragonfly Society']]
[u'Gynocentric communication among nuclear kin in the USA and Spain', ['Devon D Brewer'], u'2014-11-29', u"Paternity uncertainty seems to have shaped humans' differential investment in kin. I examined sex differences in communication among nuclear kin to expand inquiry on this matter and address some methodological limitations in prior work. I analyzed data from national surveys in the USA and Spain and a study of mobile phone communication in the immediate aftermath of the 2013 Boston Marathon bombings. Respondents communicated mildly to moderately more with mother than father and more with sister than brother. The differences in communication with mother and father appeared in both subjective survey data and objective mobile telephone records. Across communication modes and studies, women and men did not differ consistently in overall frequency of communication. Matricentric and sororicentric tendencies were larger for the modes likely to involve dyadic communication (such as telelphone calling and texting) than modes which often involve communication in group settings (face-to-face). The tendency to communicate more with female than male kin also appeared to be stronger in women respondents than in men. These results are consistent with paternity uncertainty as an ultimate evolutionary cause of differential investment in kin.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/647/', ['Anthropology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Interdisciplinary Scientific Research']]
[u'Structure determination of Murine Norovirus NS6 proteases with C-terminal extensions designed to probe protease-substrate interactions', ['Humberto Fernandes', 'Eoin N Leen', 'Hamlet Cromwell Jnr', 'Marc-Philipp Pfeil', 'Stephen Curry'], u'2014-11-28', u'Noroviruses are positive-sense single-stranded RNA viruses. They encode an NS6 protease that cleaves a viral polyprotein at specific sites to produce mature viral proteins. In an earlier study we obtained crystals of murine norovirus (MNV) NS6 protease in which crystal contacts were mediated by specific insertion of the C-terminus of one protein (which contains residues P5-P1 of the NS6-7 cleavage junction) into the peptide binding site of an adjacent molecule, forming an adventitious protease-product complex. We sought to reproduce this crystal form to investigate protease-substrate complexes by extending the C-terminus of NS6 construct to include residues on the C-terminal (P\xb4) side of the cleavage junction. We report the crystallization and crystal structure determination of inactive mutants of murine norovirus NS6 protease with C-terminal extensions of one, two and four residues from the N-terminus of the adjacent NS7 protein (NS6 1\xb4, NS6 2\xb4, NS6 4\xb4). We also determined the structure of a chimeric extended NS6 protease in which the P4 P4\u2032 sequence of the NS6-7 cleavage site was replaced with the corresponding sequence from the NS2-3 cleavage junction (NS6 4\xb4 2|3).\nThe constructs NS6 1\u2032 and NS6 2\u2032 yielded crystals that diffracted anisotropically. We found that, although the uncorrected data could be phased by molecular replacement, refinement of the structures stalled unless the data were ellipsoidally truncated and corrected with anisotropic B-factors. These corrections significantly improved phasing by molecular replacement and subsequent refinement.\nThe refined structures of all four extended NS6 proteases are very similar in structure to the mature MNV NS6 \u2014 and in one case reveal additional details of a surface loop. Although the packing arrangement observed showed some similarities to those observed in the adventitious protease-product crystals reported previously, in no case were specific protease-substrate interactions observed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/646/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Laboratory of Genomic Engineering, Institute of Biochemistry and Biophysics', u'Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College London', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Oxford']]
[u'First record of multi-species synchronous coral spawning from Malaysia', ['Alvin J Cheliah', 'Halimi Bin Amir', 'Julian Hyde', 'Katie Yewdall', 'Peter D Steinberg', 'James R Guest'], u'2014-11-28', u'Knowledge about the timing and synchrony of coral spawning has important implications for both the ecology and management of coral reef ecosystems, however,data on spawning timing and extent of synchrony are still lacking for many coral reefs, particularly from equatorial regions and from locations within the coral triangle. Here we present the first documentation of a multi-species coral spawning event from reefs around Pulau Tioman, Peninsular Malaysia, a popular diving and tourist destination located on the edge of the coral triangle. At least 8 coral species from 3 genera and 2 families participated in multi-species spawning over five nights in April 2014, between two nights before and two nights after the full moon. Two Acropora species (A. digitifera and A. tenuis) also spawned one night prior to the full moon in October 2014. While two species of Acropora (A. millepora and A. nasuta) exhibited highly synchronous spawning in April (100% of sampled colonies), two other common species (A. hyacinthus and A. digitifera) did not contain visible eggs in the majority of colonies sampled (i.e., <15% of colonies) in either April or October, suggesting that these species spawn at other times of the year. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first detailed documented observation of multi-species coral spawning from reefs in Malaysia and these data support the contention that this phenomenon is a feature of all speciose coral assemblages. More research is needed, however, to determine the seasonal cycles and extent of spawning synchrony on these reefs and elsewhere in Malaysia.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/645/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Reefcheck Malaysia, Reefcheck Malaysia', u'Tioman Dive Centre, Tioman Dive Centre', u'Advanced Environmental Biotechnology Centre, Nanyang Technological University', u'Centre for Marine Bio-innovation, University of New South Wales', u'Sydney Institute of Marine Science, University of New South Wales']]
[u'Taphonomic and sedimentological aspects of the "Picos II" paleontological site, municipality of Piranhas, Alagoas, Brazil', ['Yumi Asakura', 'Jorge Luiz Lopes da Silva', 'Ana Paula Lopes da Silva', 'Elaine Pollyanna Alves da Silva', 'Erica Cavalcante Omena'], u'2014-11-28', u'The paleontological site \u201cPicos II\u201d, located at Picos farm, municipality of Piranhas, is a fossiliferous deposit with lagoon geomorphological features. The material found was in excellent condition, two Pleistocene mammalian taxa were identified: Eremotherium laurillardi and Notiomastodon platensis. The taphonomic analysis indicates that the deposited material suffered short transportation, in high-energy environment, taking form as a single depositional event covering the crystalline basement level, with disarticulation in situ, which explains the high degree of conservation of the material. The sedimentological analysis corroborates the information obtained in taphonomic analysis. The well preserved material found in SP Picos II demonstrates the great potencial of the lagoon type deposits, with less steep lateral than tanks, and promotes a smoother transport and accommodation of skeletal elements.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/644/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Department of Geology, Federal University of Pernambuco', u'Sector of Paleontology, Natural History Museum, Federal University of Alagoas']]
[u'Evidence from studies in rodents and in isolated adipocytes that agonists of the chemerin receptor CMKLR1 may be beneficial in the treatment of type 2 diabetes', ['Ed T Wargent', 'Mohamed S Zaibi', "Jacqueline F O'Dowd", 'Mike A Cawthorne', 'Steven J Y Wang', 'Jonathan R S Arch', 'Claire J Stocker'], u'2014-11-28', u'It is unclear whether the adipokine chemerin has pro- or anti-inflammatory properties, plays any role in the aetiology of obesity or type 2 diabetes, or whether agonists or antagonists of the chemerin receptor CMKLR1 have potential in the treatment of these diseases. To address these questions, we investigatedthe metabolic phenotypes of both male and female, CMKLR1 knockout and heterozygote mice; the effects of murine chemerin and some C-terminal peptides on glucose uptake in wild-type and CMKLR1 knockout adipocytes; and plasma chemerin levels and chemerin gene mRNA content in adipose tissue in models ofobesity and diabetes, and in response to fasting or administration of the insulin sensitizing drug rosiglitazone, which also has anti-inflammatory properties. Both male and female, CMKLR1 knockout and heterozygote mice displayed a mild tendency to obesity and impaired glucose homeostasis, but only when they were fed on a high fat, rather than a standard low fat diet. Obesity and impaired glucose homeostasis did not occur concurrently, suggesting that obesity was not the sole cause of impaired glucose homeostasis. Picomolar concentrations of chemerin and its C15- and C19-terminal peptides stimulatedglucose uptake in the presence of insulin by rat and mouse wild-type epididymal adipocytes, but not by murine CMKLR1 knockout adipocytes. The insulin concentration-response curve was shifted to the left in the presence of 40 pM chemerin or its C-15 terminal peptide. The plasma chemerin level was raised in diet-induced obesity and  ob/ob  but not  db/db  mice, and reduced by fasting and, in  ob/ob  mice, by treatment with rosiglitazone. These findings suggest that an agonist of CMKLR1 is more likely than an antagonist to be of value in the treatment of type 2 diabetes and have associated anti-obesity andanti-inflammatory activities. One mechanism by which an agonist of CMKLR1 might improve glucose homeostasis is by increasing insulin-stimulated glucose uptake by adipocytes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/643/', ['Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Pharmacology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Clore Laboratory, Buckingham Institute for Translational Medicine, University of Buckingham', u'AstraZeneca R & D, Alderley Park, AstraZeneca']]
[u'Plasticity of gene expression according to salinity in the testis of broodstock and F1 black-chinned tilapia, Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii', ['Jean-Christophe Avarre', 'Bruno Guinand', 'Remi Dugue', 'Jacky Cosson', 'Marc Legendre', 'Jacques Panfili', 'Jean-Dominique Durand'], u'2014-11-28', u'The black-chinned tilapia Sarotherodon melanotheron heudelotii R\xfcppell 1852 (Teleostei, Cichlidae) displays remarkable acclimation capacities. When exposed to drastic changes of salinity, which can be the case in its natural habitat, it develops quick physiological responses and keeps reproducing. The present study focused on the physiological impact of salinity on male reproductive capacities, using gene expression as a proxy of acclimation process. Two series of experimental fish were investigated: the first one was composed of fish maintained in freshwater for several generations and newly acclimated to salinities of 35 and 70, whereas the second one consisted of the descendants of the latter born and raised under their native salinity. Expression patterns of 43 candidate genes previously identified from the testes of wild males was investigated in the three salinities and two generations. Twenty of them showed significant expression differences between salinities, and their predicted function revealed that most of them are involved in the osmotic tolerance of sperm cells and/or in the maintenance of sperm motility. A high level of expression variation was evidenced, especially for fish maintained in freshwater. In spite of this, gene expression patterns allowed the differentiation between fish raised in freshwater and those maintained in hypersaline water, in both generations. Altogether, the results presented here suggest that this high variability of expression is likely to ensure the reproductive success of this species under varying salinities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/642/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology'], [u"UMR 226 IRD-CNRS-UM2, Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier, Institut de Recherche pour le D\xe9veloppement", u"UMR 226 IRD-CNRS-UM2, Institut des Sciences de L'Evolution de Montpellier, Universit\xe9 Montpellier 2", u'South Bohemian Research Center of Aquaculture and Biodiversity of Hydrocenoses, Research Institute of Fish Culture and Hydrobiolog, University of South Bohemia in Ceske Budejovice, Faculty of Fisheries and Protection of Waters', u'UMR 5119 IRD-UM2-CNRS-IFREMER, Ecologie des Syst\xe8mes Marins C\xf4tiers, Institut de Recherche pour le D\xe9veloppement']]
[u'Nurturing 21st century physician knowledge, skills and attitudes with medical home innovations: the wright center for graduate medical education teaching health center curriculum experience', ['Linda Thomas-Hemak', 'Ghanshyam Palamaner Subash Shantha', 'Lakshmi Rani Gollamudi', 'Jignesh Sheth', 'Brian Ebersole', 'Katlyn J. Gardner', 'Julie Nardella', 'Meaghan Ruddy', 'Lauren Meade'], u'2014-11-28', u'Purpose: Effect of patient centered medical home (PCMH) curriculum interventions on residents\u2019 self-reported and demonstrated knowledge, skills and attitudes (KSA) in PCMH competency arenas is lacking in the literature. This study aimed to assess impact of PCMH curricular innovations on Internal Medicine residents\u2019 self-reported KSA. Method: Twenty four (24) Internal Medicine residents - 12 Traditional (TR) track and 12 Teaching Health Center (THC) track - began training in academic year (AY) 2011 at the Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education (WCGME). They were followed through AY2013 covering three years of training. PCMH curricular innovations were applied beginning July 2011 until May 2012 focally to THC residents. These curricular innovations were spread program wide in May 2012. Semi-annual validated PCMH Clinician Assessments assessing PCMH competencies based on self-reported KSA were started in AY2011 and completed by all residents. Results: Mean self-reported KSA scores of TR residents were similar to THC residents at baseline for all PCMH competencies. In May 2012, mean scores of THC residents were significantly higher than 2011 and graduating 2009 TR residents for most PCMH competencies. After program wide implementation of PCMH innovations, mean scores of 2011 and 2010 TR residents for all PCMH competencies improved and most equalized to those of 2011 THC residents. Globally improved PCMH competency scores of 2011 THC and TR residents were maintained through May 2014, with majority of improvements above baseline reaching statistical significance. Conclusions: PCMH curricular innovations inspired by HRSA\u2019s Teaching Health Center funded residency program expansion quickly and consistently improved Internal Medicine residents\u2019 self-reported KSA of PCMH competencies and improvements were sustained.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/641/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Internal Medicine, The Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education', u'The Wright Center for Graduate Medical Education', u'Department of Family, Community, and Rural Health, TCMC', u'Tufts Medical School']]
[u'An algorithm to detect and communicate the differences in computational models describing biological systems', ['Martin Scharm', 'Olaf Wolkenhauer', 'Dagmar Waltemath'], u'2014-11-28', u'Repositories, such as the BioModels Database and the Physiome Model Repository support the reuse of models and ensure transparency about results in publications linked to those models. With thousands of models available, a framework to track the differences between models and their versions is essential to compare and combine models. Difference detection allows users to study the history of models but also helps in the detection of errors and inconsistencies. However, current repositories lack suitable methods to track a model\u2019s development over time. Consequently, researchers have problems to grasp the differences between models and their versions.\nFocusing on SBML and CellML, we developed an algorithm to accurately detect and describe differences between versions of a model with respect to (i) the models\u2019 encoding, (ii) the structure of biological networks, and (iii) mathematical expressions. Our method is implemented in a comprehensive and open library called BiVeS. Our work facilitates the reuse and extension of existing models. It also supports collaborative modelling. Finally, it contributes to better reproducibility of modelling results and to the challenge of model provenance.\nOur algorithm is the first tailor-made detector of differences between versions of computational models in standard formats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/640/', ['Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Dept. of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock', u'Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study, Wallenberg Research Centre at Stellenbosch University']]
[u'The CombineArchiveWeb application \u2013 A web based tool to handle files associated with modelling results', ['Martin Scharm', 'Florian Wendland', 'Martin Peters', 'Markus Wolfien', 'Tom Theile', 'Dagmar Waltemath'], u'2014-11-28', u'Sharing in silico experiments is essential for the advance of research in computational biology. Consequently, the COMBINE archive was designed as a digital container format. It eases the management of files related to a modelling result, fosters collaboration, and ultimately enables the exchange of reproducible simulation studies. However, manual handling of COMBINE archives is tedious and error prone. We therefore developed the CombineArchiveWeb application to support scientists in promoting and publishing their research by means of creating, exploring, modifying, and sharing archives. All files are equipped with meta data and can be distributed over the Web through shareable workspaces.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/639/', ['Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Dept. of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock']]
[u'A novel approach to assess the dynamics of extra-chromosomal circular ribosomal DNA in human cells', ['Joerg R Leheste', 'Emily Forbes', 'Kristin DiGregorio', 'Victoria Katz', 'Alyssa Miceli', 'Christopher Husko', 'Raddy L Ramos', 'German Torres'], u'2014-11-26', u'Several nutrient-signaling pathways that extend life span have been described in model organisms. Thus, parallel and redundant signaling pathways that are similar across species might be subject to experimental manipulation. Here, we develop a PCR-based technique for testing the hypothesis that mitotic accumulation of extra-chromosomal ribosomal DNA circles might also determine life span in human cells. Using resveratrol, a phytochemical that counters age-related signs, we find treatment-dependent subcellular accumulations of extra-chromosomal 5S ribosomal DNA in human cell lines. These data suggest an association between DNA circles and intrinsic aging and demonstrate the utility of a PCR-based technique for studying the accumulation of dysfunctional molecules that promote senescence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/638/', ['Biotechnology', 'Cell Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, NYIT College of Osteopathic Medicine']]
[u'Temporal profiling of the bacterial and fungal communities in \u0394F508 adult cysticfibrosis sputum', ['Andrew Nelson', 'Audrey Perry', 'Christopher J Stewart', 'Clare V Lanyon', 'John D Perry', 'Stephen J Bourke', 'Anthony De Soyza', 'Stephen P Cummings'], u'2014-11-26', u'Aims: The purpose of this study was to analyse the bacterial and fungal turnover in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients who were \u0394F508 homo- and hetero-zygotes. Further to this we wanted to identify the effects that Intravenous (IV) antibiotic perturbations had on the community and most importantly, whether exacerbations in these patients could be attributed to microbial species or communities. Methods:  A total of 149 samples were collected from 18 adult CF patients attending a clinic at the RVI hospital, Newcastle upon Tyne. The samples were subject to DNA extraction followed by bacterial and fungal community DGGE analysis as well as qPCR analysis of the bacterial load. Results:  We have found that bacterial and fungal communities present in the CF lung are not different when patients are suffering an exacerbation. Further to this, we have found that bacterial communities in the CF lung are disturbed by IV antibiotic administration and cause increased species turnover. We have shown that fungal taxa are capable of chronically colonising the CF lung. Conclusions:  Our study adds further evidence to the assertion that changes in bacterial communities are not the cause of CF exacerbations. However, we were able to demonstrate that acquisition of new bacterial taxa was strongly associated with exacerbations in one patient. This study is the first to illustrate that fungi can persist in the CF lung but are not associated with clinical status.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/637/', ['Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Mycology', 'Respiratory Medicine'], [u'Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Northumbria University', u'Department of Microbiology, Freeman Hospital', u'Adult Cystic Fibrosis Unit, Department of Respiratory Medicine, Royal Victoria Hospital', u'Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University']]
[u'Population structure of Neisseria gonorrhoeae based on whole genome data and its relationship with antibiotic resistance', ['Matthew N. Ezewudo', 'Sandeep Joseph', 'Santiago Castillo-Ramirez', 'Deborah Dean', 'Carlos Del Rio', 'Xavier Didelot', 'Jo-Anne R. Dillon', 'Richard F Selden', 'William M. Shafer', 'Rosemary S. Turingan', 'Magnus Unemo', 'Timothy D. Read'], u'2014-11-26', u'Neisseria gonorrhoeae is the causative agent of gonorrhea, a sexually transmitted infection (STI) of major importance. As a result of antibiotic resistance, there are now limited options for treating patients. We collected whole genome sequences and associated metadata data on 76 N. gonorrhoeae strains from around the globe and searched for known determinants of antibiotics resistance within the strains. The population structure and evolutionary forces within the pathogen population were analyzed. Our results indicated a cosmopolitan gonoccocal population mainly made up of five subgroups. The estimated ratio of recombination to mutation (r/m=2.2) from our data set indicates an appreciable level of recombination occurring in the population. Strains with resistance phenotypes to more recent antibiotics (azithromycin and cefixime) were mostly found in two of the five population subgroups.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/636/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Division of Infectious Diseases, Emory University School of Medicine', u'Evolutionary Genomics Research Program Center for Genomic Sciences, National Autonomous University of Mexico', u'Chlamydia Research Laboratory, Children Hospital of Oakland Research Institute', u'Emory University School of Public Health', u'Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, Imperial College London', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine, Vaccine and Infectious Disease Organization, International Vaccine Centre, University of ,  Saskatchewan', u'NetBio', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Emory University School of Medicine', u'Laboratories of Bacterial Pathogenesis, Veterans Affairs Medical Center', u'WHO Collaborating Centre for Gonorrhoea and other STIs, \xd6rebro University Hospital']]
[u'Quantifying the variability of optimal cutpoints and reference values for diagnostic measures', ['Gerrit Hirschfeld', 'Boris Zernikow'], u'2014-11-25', u'Aim: Empirical studies in medicine \u2013 and most other fields of study - yield results that are uncertain to a certain degree. Medical research on interventions has made tremendous leaps forward by quantifying and reporting this uncertainty using p-values and confidence intervals. In contrast to this, most diagnostic studies that determine optimal cutpoints or reference values for diagnostic measures ignore that their outcomes, i.e. the specific cutpoints or normal ranges they recommend, are subject to chance variability. Methods: In this paper we use a simple simulation approach to quantify the variability of optimal cutpoints for two published studies. The first determined an optimal cutpoint for Becks Depression Inventory (BDI) in adults. The second determined reference values for Quantitative Sensory Testing (QST) in children. Results: We find that frequently employed cutpoints to interpret BDI scores and QST results are highly variable. For the BDI we find that replication of this study may identify values between 14 and 21 as optimal cutpoints. The lower cutpoint results in a misclassification of 15% of the healthy adults as depressed, the upper cutpoint results in a misclassification rate of 2%. For the QST we find that the upper end of the normal range HPT varies between 46.9 and 50.2 degrees Celsius. Conclusions: Based on our results we argue that researchers should be required to estimate and report the variability of reference values and optimal cutpoints for diagnostic tools. This may improve the harmonization of findings across studies and provides a rationale for planning future studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/635/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Epidemiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Quantitative Methods, University of Applied Sciences Osnabr\xfcck', u'German Paediatric Pain Centre, Children\u2019s Hospital Datteln']]
[u'A pilot study to evaluate the magnitude of association of patient activation in HIV-infected veterans who use electronic personal health records', ['Pierre-Cedric Crouch', 'Carol PhD, RN, FAAN Dawson Rose', 'Mallory I. Johnson', 'Susan Janson'], u'2014-11-25', u'Background: The HITECH Act signed into law in 2009 requires hospitals to provide patients with electronic access to their health information through an electronic personal health record (ePHR) in order to receive Medicare/Medicaid incentive payments. Little is known about who uses these systems or the impact these systems will have on patient outcomes in HIV care. The health care empowerment model provides rationale for the hypothesis that knowledge from an electronic personal health record can lead to greater patient empowerment resulting in improved outcomes. Objective: To determine the patient characteristics and patient activation, empowerment, satisfaction, knowledge of their CD4, Viral Loads, and antiretroviral medication, and medication adherence outcomes associated with electronic personal health record use in Veterans living with HIV at the San Francisco VA Medical Center. Participants: HIV-Infected Veterans receiving care in a low volume HIV-clinic at the San Francisco VA Medical Center, divided into two groups of users and non-users of electronic personal health records. Methods: In-person surveys were completed either online or on paper and data abstraction was completed from medical records for current anti-retroviral therapy (ART), CD4 count, and plasma HIV-1 viral load. Measures: The measures included the Patient Activation Measure, Health Care Empowerment Inventory, ART adherence, provider satisfaction, current CD4 count, current plasma viral load, knowledge of current ART, knowledge of CD4 counts, and knowledge of viral load. Results: In all, 40 participants were recruited. The use of electronic personal health records was associated with significantly higher levels of patient activation and levels of patient satisfaction for getting timely appointments, care, and information. ePHR was also associated with greater proportions of undetectable plasma HIV-1 viral loads, of knowledge of current CD4 count, and of knowledge of current viral load. The two groups differed by race and computer access. There was no difference in the current CD4, provider satisfaction, Health Care Empowerment Inventory score, satisfaction with provider-patient communication, satisfaction with courteous and helpful staff, knowledge of ART, or ART adherence. Conclusions: The use of electronic personal health records is associated with positive clinical and behavioral characteristics. The use of these systems may play a role in improving the health of people with HIV. Larger studies are needed to further evaluate these associations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/634/', ['HIV', 'Nursing', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Community Health Systems, University of California, San Francisco', u'Center for AIDS Prevention Studies, University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Effect of ascorbic acid on Mycobacterium tuberculosis biofilms', ['James P Dalton', 'Benedict Uy', 'Simon Swift', 'Siouxsie Wiles'], u'2014-11-25', u'Planktonic cultures of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacterium responsible for the lung disease tuberculosis (TB), are highly susceptible to killing by ascorbic acid (vitamin C). As planktonically grown M. tuberculosis are unlikely to be representative of the bacterium during infection, we set out to determine if ascorbic acid was also antibacterial against M. tuberculosis growing as a biofilm. We use biofilm growth as a model for the multiple phenotypic states M. tuberculosis can exist in during an infection. In our experiments we employed bioluminescent M. tuberculosis H37Rv (BSGTB1) in which light production is a non-destructive surrogate measure of bacterial viability. Light levels were monitored before and after treatment with 1mM to 256mM ascorbic acid. After 3 weeks of treatment, biofilms were disrupted, washed and inoculated into fresh media to look for sterilisation. Our findings show that ascorbic acid concentrations of 32mM or greater reduced bioluminescence produced by M. tuberculosis BSGTB1 growing in biofilms to background levels and resulted in the death of all cells within the biofilm. This indicates that M. tuberculosis biofilms are susceptible to inhibition and killing by ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and suggests that novel antibiotics with a mode of action similar to ascorbic acid could represent a useful avenue of investigation for TB treatment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/633/', ['Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Bioluminescent Superbugs Lab, Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, University of Auckland', u'Maurice Wilkins Centre for Molecular Biodiscovery', u'Department of Molecular Medicine and Pathology, University of Auckland']]
[u'Why not do phylogeography on every chthamalid barnacle? The case of Jehlius cirratus', ['John P Wares'], u'2014-11-24', u"Here I evaluate the population genetic structure of the barnacle Jehlius cirratus across a broad portion of its geographic distribution using data from the mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase I (COI) gene region. Despite sampling diversity from close to 3000km of the linear range of this barnacle, there is little evidence for population structure. Hudson's Snn value across all sites is not significantly different from null expectation, and no other phylogeographic structure is evident. Unbalanced sample sizes and their effect on such population genetic and phylogeographic analyses are discussed, but the general conclusion of this study is that J. cirratus can be considered panmictic along the Chilean coast.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/596/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Genetics and Odum School of Ecology, University of Georgia']]
[u'Metagenomic analysis of bacterial community composition among the cave sediments of Indo-Burman biodiversity hotspot region', ['Surajit De Mandal', 'Zothan Sanga', 'Senthil Kumar Nachimuthu'], u'2014-11-22', u'Caves in Mizoram, Northeast India are potential hotspot diversity regions due to the historical significance of the formation of Indo-Burman plateau and also because of their unexplored and unknown diversity. High throughput paired end illumina sequencing of V4 region of 16S rRNA was performed to systematically evaluate the bacterial community of three caves situated in Champhai district of Mizoram, Northeast India. A total of 10,643 operational taxonomic units (based on 97% cutoff) comprising 21 bacterial phyla and 21 candidate phyla with a sequencing depth of 11, 40013 were found in this study. The overall taxonomic profile obtained by BLAST against RDP classifier and Greengene OTU database revealed high diversity within the bacterial communities, dominated by Planctomycetes, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes, while members of archea were less diverse and mainly comprising of eukaryoarchea. Analysis revealed that Farpuk (CFP) cave has low diversity and is mainly dominated by actinobacteria (80% reads), whereas diverse communities were found in the caves of Murapuk (CMP) and Lamsialpuk (CLP). Analysis of rare and abundant species also revealed that a major portion of the identified OTUs were falling under rare biosphere. Significantly, all these caves recorded a high number of unclassified OUTs which might represent novel species. Further, analysis with whole genome sequencing is needed to validate the novel species as well as to determine their functional significance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/631/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology, Mizoram University']]
[u'Malaria prevalence and incidence in an isolated, meso-endemic area of Mozambique', ['Jacques Derek D Charlwood', 'Erzelia V.E. Tomas', 'Mauro Braganca', 'Nelson Cuamba', 'Michael Alifrangis', 'Louise Kelly-Hope', 'Michelle Stanton'], u'2014-11-22', u'If malaria can be eliminated from anywhere it is from isolated areas such as the 2x7 km peninsula of Linga Linga in southern Mozambique. Currently available control strategies include bed nets impregnated with pyrethroid insecticides (long-lasting insecticidal bed nets; LLINs), artemisinin combination therapy (ACT) for treatment and rapid diagnostic tests (RDTs) for diagnosis. When these became available, they were applied and their effects on malaria prevalence measured over the years 2007 \u2013 2011. Following a census of the population and mapping of 500 households, five annual all age prevalence surveys were conducted over the years 2007 \u2013 2011. Information on LLIN use, house construction, and animal ownership was obtained. Mean prevalence varied from 16% (in 2007) to 65% (in 2009) according to the season in which the surveys were performed. The 5 \u2013 9 year old age group had the highest prevalence rate in the first three surveys (2007 \u2013 2009). A spatially structured generalised additive model indicated that malaria risk was greatest towards the northern end of the peninsula. The effect on the incidence of malaria of a clinic providing RDT\u2019s for diagnosis and ACT\u2019s for treatment was also monitored from March 2009 to May 2011. Malaria was diagnosed in 31% of the 4321 visits from residents attending the clinic and 72% of those tested were positive. People with confirmed malaria were younger than the median age of people attending the clinic. People with a fever were more likely to have malaria than people without a fever but bednet use did not affect the likelihood of having malaria. People living further away from the health post were less likely to attend. The number of attendees diagnosed with malaria decreased significantly from 35% (399 of 1144 attendees) in 2009 to 24% (271 of 1150 attendees) in 2011 (Chi sq = 19.1, p> 0.0001). In order to reduce malaria prevalence in an area such as Linga Linga further measures of vector control need to be considered if reductions in malaria prevalence are to be achieved.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/630/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'Centre for Health Research and Development, Faculty of Life, University of Copenhagen', u'Instituto Nacional de Sa\xfade, Minist\xe9rio da Sa\xfade', u'MOZDAN (Mozambican-Danish Rural Malaria Initiative)', u'Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Faculdade de Medicina Veterin\xe1ria, Universidade Lus\xf3fona de Humanidades e Tecnologia', u'Centre for Medical Parasitology, Institute of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, and Institute of Public Health, University of Copenhagen', u'Centre for Neglected Tropical Diseases, Department of Parasitology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine']]
[u'Comment on \u201cChemically mediated behavior of recruiting corals and fishes: A tipping point that may limit reef recovery\u201d', ['Andrew H Baird', 'Vivian R Cumbo', 'Joana Figueiredo', 'Saki Harii', 'Tom Hata', 'Joshua S Madin'], u'2014-11-21', u'Dixson et al. (2014) report that coral larvae navigate towards chemical cues associated with healthy reefs and avoid cues from degraded reefs. However, the swimming capabilities of coral larvae and well-established patterns of recruitment and reef hydrodynamics indicate that coral larvae will not be able to use these cues to recruit to healthy reefs. Perfuming degraded reefs, as suggested by Dixson et al (2014), will not enhance recovery rather it will distract from the difficult task of reducing fishing effort and improving water quality.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/628/', ['Ecology'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University', u'ARC Centre of Excellence for Coral Reef Studies, James Cook University', u'Oceanographic Center, Nova Southeastern University', u'Sesoko Station, Tropical Biosphere Reserach Center, University of the Ryukyus', u'Hopkins Marine Station, Stanford University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University']]
[u'Uneven distribution of enamel in the tooth crown of the hypsodont Plains Zebra Equus quagga', ['Daniela E Winkler', 'Thomas M Kaiser'], u'2014-11-21', u'Unworn teeth of herbivorous mammals are not immediately functional. They have to get in wear to expose enamel ridges which can then act as shear-cutting blades to disintegrate the food. We use the Plains Zebra (Equus quagga) as a hypsodont, herbivorous model organism to investigate how initial wear of the tooth crown is controlled by underlying structures. We find that the enamel proportion is smaller at the apical part of the tooth crown in all upper tooth positions. Measurements of enamel thickness on the first molar show that the outer enamel band is widest in the lower half of the tooth crown, where enamel content is also highest. We therefore find evidence that the distribution of enamel within the tooth crown is uneven and lower enamel content at the apex promotes early wear. This gradient in enamel distribution is less pronounced in the last molar (txM3), which has also a higher overall enamel content. The M3 is thus hypothesised to have a slightly different functional trait in mastication, resisting highest bite forces along the tooth row and maintaining functionality while anterior teeth are already worn down.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/627/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Center for Natural History (CeNak), University of Hamburg']]
[u'Do young tropical restoration plantations exhibit a phylogenetic pattern that suggests the influence of biotic processes affecting species composition?', ['Daniella Schweizer', 'Gregory S Gilbert', 'Rafael Aizprua'], u'2014-11-20', u'One approach in forest restoration is to plant trees that will establish an initial canopy to promote forest recovery through natural recruitment of other species. Here we evaluate the patterns of either phylogenetic overdispersion or phylogenetic clustering on community assembly beneath seven different single-species tree plantations. We expected the presence of negative biotic interactions between closely related overstory and recruiting tree species, as well as among related recruiting species, to lead to phylogenetic overdispersion. We found no evidence for inhibition of close relatives of the overstory tree species. However, we found more understory species than expected that were very distantly related to the overstory tree when the canopy was comprised of Fabaceae species, which lead to the presence of similar species in the understory of legume species. We found weak phylogenetic patterns among species in the understory community that suggest the presence of random processes of community assembly, maybe due to the young age of the understory communities studied.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/625/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Forestry Department, School of Silviculture and Agriculture \u201c Luiz de Queiroz\u201d, University of Sao Paulo', u'Environmental Studies Department, University of California Santa Cruz', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute', u'Flora Tropical']]
[u'Predictors of health care utilization in young children with recurrent pain \u2013 a population-based study', ['Gerrit Hirschfeld', 'Julia Wager', 'Boris Zernikow'], u'2014-11-19', u'Background: Recurrent pain is a common experience in childhood, but only few children with recurrent pain attend a physician. Previous small-scale studies yielded conflicting findings with regard to predictors of health care utilization in children with recurrent pain. Methods: The present study analyzes a subset of the data from the German Health Interview and Examination Survey for Children and Adolescents (KiGGS) study. Specifically, our sample comprised n= 2,149 young children (3-10 years old) with recurrent pain to find robust predictors. We used multiple logistic regressions to investigate age, gender, SES, migration background, pain intensity, pain frequency, pain-related disability, somatic symptoms, HRQL, as predictors for visiting a doctor due to pain. Additionally we investigated the variability of the predictors to assess the sample size needed to make reliable claims about predictors of health-care utilization. Results: Overall, 1144 (53%) children consulted a physician due to recurrent pain. Young girls with high pain-related disability, -intensity, \u2013frequency, and migration background were more likely to attend a physician. Pain-related disability had the largest impact. Socioeconomic status, health-related quality of life and somatic symptoms were not systematically related to health care utilization. An analysis of the variability of these results indicated that several hundred participants are needed until the results stabilize. Conclusions: Our findings highlight the importance of pain-related disability and frequency in assessing the severity of recurrent pain. Generic predictors and demographic variables are of lesser relevance to children with recurrent pain. On a methodological level our results show that large-scale population-based studies are need to reliably identify predictors of health care utilization.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/618/', ['Epidemiology', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Faculty of Business Management and Social Sciences, University of Applied Sciences Osnabr\xfcck', u'German Paediatric Pain Centre, Children\u2019s Hospital', u'Chair for Children\u2019s Pain Therapy and Paediatric Palliative Care, Witten/Herdecke University']]
[u'The biter bit? Investigation of possible in-ovo self-envenomation in an Egyptian saw-scaled viper using region of interest X-ray microtomography', ['Richard E Johnston', 'John Mulley'], u'2014-11-19', u'Proven examples of self-envenomation by venomous snakes, and especially instances of death as a result of these events, are extremely rare, if not non-existent. Here we use Region of Interest X-ray microtomography to investigate a putative case of fatal in-ovo self-envenomation in the Egyptian saw-scaled viper, Echis pyramidum. Our analyses have provided unprecedented insight into the skeletal anatomy of a late-stage embryonic snake and the disposition of the fangs without disrupting or destroying a unique biological specimen.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/624/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'College of Engineering, Swansea University', u'School of Biological Sciences, Bangor University']]
[u'Leprous lesion reveals disturbed skin-resident microbiota', ['Andrea Nascimento', 'Paulo Silva', 'Patricia Costa', 'Mariana Reis', 'Marcelo Avila', 'Maria Luiza Suhadolnik', 'Ana Paula Ana Salgado', 'Mario Lima', 'Edmar Chartone-Souza'], u'2014-11-19', u'Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease that remains a major challenge to public health in endemic countries. Increasing evidence has highlighted the importance of microbiota for human general health and, as such, the study of skin microbiota is of interest. But while studies are continuously revealing the complexity of human skin microbiota, the microbiota of leprous cutaneous lesions has not yet been characterized. Here we used Sanger and massively parallel SSU rRNA gene sequencing to characterize the microbiota of leprous lesions, and studied how it differs from the bacterial skin composition of healthy individuals previously described in the literature. Taxonomic analysis of leprous lesions revealed main four phyla: Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Actinobacteria, with Proteobacteria presenting the highest diversity. There were considerable differences in the distribution of Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, and Actinobacteria, with the first two phyla enriched and the other markedly diminished in the leprous lesions, when compared with healthy skin. Propionibacterium, Corynebacterium and Staphylococcus, resident and abundant in healthy skin, were underrepresented in skin from leprous lesions. Most of the taxa found in skin from leprous lesions are not typical of human skin and potentially pathogenic, with the Bulkorderia, Pseudomonas and Bacillus genera being overrepresented. Our data suggest significant shifts of the microbiota with emergence and competitive advantage of potentially pathogenic bacteria over skin resident taxa.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/623/', ['Genetics', 'Microbiology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Departamento de Biologia Geral, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais', u'Laborat\xf3rio Hermes Pardini']]
[u'Chronic negative mood affects internal representations of negative facial expressions \u2013 An internet study', ['Jacob Jolij', 'Sophia C. Wriedt', 'Annika Luckmann'], u'2014-11-19', u'Facial expressions are an important source of information in social interactions, as they effectively communicate someone\u2019s emotional state. Not surprisingly, the human visual system is highly specialized in processing facial expressions. Interestingly, processing of facial expressions is influenced by the emotional state of the observer: in a negative mood, observers are more sensitive to negative emotional expression than when they are in a positive mood, and vice versa. Here, we investigated the effects of chronic negative mood on perception of facial expressions by means of an online reverse correlation paradigm. We administered a depression questionnaire assessing chronic negative mood over the last two weeks. We constructed a classification image for negative emotion for each participant by means of an online reverse correlation task, which were rated for intensity of expression by an independent group of observers. Here we found a strong correlation between chronic mood and intensity of expression of the internal representation: the more negative chronic mood, the less intense the negative expression of the internal representation. This experiment corroborates earlier findings that the perception of facial expression is affected by an observer\u2019s mood, and that this effect may be the result of altered top-down internal representations of facial expression. Equally importantly, though, our results demonstrate the feasibility of applying a reverse correlation paradigm via the Internet, opening up the possibility for large-sample studies using this technique.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/622/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Groningen']]
[u'Serial sampling provides chronological evidence that endogenous protein is used for primary growth in a molt-migrant goose', ['Sievert Rohwer', 'Anthony D Fox', 'Thomas Daniel', 'Jeffery F Kelly'], u'2014-11-19', u'This is a proof of concept paper based on chronological samples of growing feathers from geese thought to be molt-migrants. When molt-migrant birds initiate molt shortly after migrating to a new isoscape, isotope values measured along the length of their feathers should change continuously. To assess long-term changes and daily cycling in \u03b415N and \u03b413C values, we serially sampled growing primaries of three presumed molt-migrant geese. Two showed changing \u03b415N signatures along the length of their growing primaries, indicating they were molt-migrants, while the third, presumably a resident, showed no change. We then resampled these feathers at closer intervals for evidence of the predicted diel cycle in the use of exogenous and endogenous protein for feather growth, generated by the diel feeding cycle of these geese. As predicted, the two geese that were equilibrating to a new isoscape showed oscillations of approximately 24-hour periodicity in \u03b415N values, measured along the length of their primaries. In contrast, the goose that was not equilibrating to a new isoscape showed no 24-hour periodicity in its \u03b415N values. Our results demonstrate that chronological sampling along the length of individual primaries holds great potential for identifying individuals that are molt-migrants.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/620/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biology and Burke Museum, University of Washington', u'Department of Bioscience, University of Aarhus', u'Department of Biology, University of Washington', u'Oklahoma Biological Survey and Department of Biology, University of Oklahoma']]
[u'Validating the use of a dumbbell to measure body sway in female Olympic air pistol shooting', ['Daniel Mon', 'Maria Zakynthinaki', 'Carlos A. Cordente-Martinez'], u'2014-11-19', u'The present study validates use of a dumbbell to simulate the air pistol in female Olympic shooting, examining, at the same time, the relation between body sway and performance. The study\u2019s participants were 23 senior female Olympic pistol shooters who competed at a Spanish air pistol championship. The participants\u2019 performance was measured at competition while their COP movements were recorded during two static bipodal balance tests which were performed the day previous to the competition, during the official training time and at the training stands. During one of the tests a 1.5 kg dumbbell was used to simulate the pistol. The calculated Pearson product moment correlations for all variables that refer to the movement of the COP revealed statistically significant correlations between the two tests. Statistically significant inverse linear correlations were also found between performance and COP movements regarding both tests: strong correlations regarding COP movement amplitudes and moderate correlations regarding COP velocities. The study concludes that a) a dumbbell can be validly used to simulate the pistol in female Olympic air pistol shooting, and b) specific balance training programs should be taken into account in order to improve performance in female air pistol shooting.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/619/', ['Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Facultad de Ciencias de la Actividad F\xedsica y del Deporte \u2013 INEF, Technical University of Madrid', u'Department of Electronics, Technological Educational Institute of Crete and Applied Mathematics and Computers Laboratory, Technical University of Crete']]
[u'Models of knot and stem development in black spruce trees indicate a shift in allocation priority to branches when growth is limited', ['Emmanuel Duchateau', 'David Auty', 'Frederic Mothe', 'Fleur Longuetaud', 'Chhun Huor Ung', 'Alexis Achim'], u'2014-11-19', u'The branch autonomy principle, which states that the growth of individual branches can be predicted from their morphology and position in the forest canopy irrespective of the characteristics of the tree, has been used to simplify models of branch growth in trees. However, observed changes in allocation priority within trees towards branches growing in light-favoured conditions, referred to as \u2018Milton\u2019s Law of resource availability and allocation\u2019, have raised questions about the applicability of the branch autonomy principle. We present models linking knot ontogeny to the secondary growth of the main stem in black spruce (Picea mariana (Mill.) B.S.P.), which were used to assess the patterns of assimilate allocation over time, both within and between trees. Data describing the annual radial growth of 445 stem rings and the three-dimensional shape of 5377 knots were extracted from optical scans and X-ray computed tomography images taken along the stems of 10 trees. Total knot to stem area increment ratios (KSR) were calculated for each year of growth, and statistical models were developed to describe the annual development of knot diameter and curvature as a function of stem radial increment, total tree height, stem diameter, and the position of knots along an annual growth unit. KSR varied as a function of tree age and of the height to diameter ratio of the stem, a variable indicative of the competitive status of the tree. Simulations of the development of an individual knot showed that an increase in the stem radial growth rate was associated with an increase in the initial growth of the knot, but also with a shorter lifespan. Our results provide support for \u2018Milton\u2019s Law\u2019, since they indicate that allocation priority is given to locations where the potential return is the highest. The developed models provided realistic simulations of knot morphology within trees, which could be integrated into a functional-structural model of tree growth and above-ground resource partitioning.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/553/', ['Computational Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Renewable Materials Research Centre, Laval University', u'School of Forestry, Northern Arizona University', u'INRA UMR1092 LERFoB, AgroParisTech', u'Canadian Wood Fibre Centre, Natural Resources Canada']]
[u'Psychosocial interventions for adults with visible differences: A systematic review', ['Alyson Norman', 'Timothy P Moss'], u'2014-11-19', u'Background: Some individuals with visible differences have been found to experience psychosocial adjustment problems that can lead to social anxiety and isolation. Various models of psychosocial intervention have been used to reduce social anxiety and appearance related distress in this population. The objective of this review was to update a previous systematic review assessing the efficacy of psychosocial intervention programs for adults with visible differences. The original review (Bessell & Moss, 2007) identified 12 papers for inclusion. Methods: A search protocol identified studies from 13 electronic journal databases. Methods: Studies were selected in accordance with pre-set inclusion criteria and relevant data were extracted. Results: This update identified an additional four papers that met the inclusion criteria. Two papers provided very limited evidence for the efficacy of a combined cognitive-behavioural and social skills training approach. None of the papers provided sufficient evidence for the optimal duration, intensity or setting of psychosocial interventions for this population. Discussion: The review concluded that a greater number of Randomised Controlled Trials and experimental studies were required to increase the methodological validity of intervention studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/617/', ['Evidence Based Medicine', 'Nursing', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology, Plymouth University', u'Centre for Appearance Research, University of the West of England']]
[u'Epidemiological evaluation of rubella virus infection among pregnant women in Ibadan, Nigeria', ['Olubusuyi M Adewumi', 'Adebowale O. Olayinka', 'Babatunde A. Olusola', 'Temitope O.C. Faleye', 'Waidi F. Sule', 'Olubukola Adesina'], u'2014-11-14', u'Rubella is a vaccine-preventable, mild rash-inducing viral disease with complications that include a spectrum of birth defects in the developing foetus, especially if the infection is acquired in the early months of pregnancy. Consequently, the primary objective of global rubella control programmes is prevention of congenital rubella infection and associated birth defects often collectively referred to as CRS. Despite the availability of safe and effective vaccines, and elimination of rubella virus in many developed countries, substantial commitment to rubella control has not been demonstrated in the developing countries. This study appraises immunity to rubella, and consequently makes appropriate recommendations aimed at facilitating effective control. A cross-sectional sero-surveillance study was carried out among 272 consenting ante-natal clinic attendees in southwestern, Nigeria. Prevalence rates of 91.54% and 1.84% were recorded for anti-rubella virus (anti-RV) IgG and IgM respectively. Also, 90.7% and 92.3% of the women aged \u2264 30 years and \u02c3 30 years respectively had detectable anti-RV IgG. No significant association (p=0.94) was recorded between anti-RV IgG detection and age of the women. Previous exposure and susceptibility of significant fraction of the population to rubella infection were confirmed. Considerable political commitment and promotion of free rubella immunization specifically for women of childbearing potential were recommended.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/613/', ['Epidemiology', 'Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Pediatrics', "Women's Health"], [u'Department of Virology, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan', u'Department of Microbiology, Ekiti State University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Osun State University', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, College of Medicine, University of Ibadan']]
[u'Fluctuating asymmetry could be reliable proxy for oxidative stress in vertebrates', ['Miguel Canovas', 'Gregorio GMG Mentaberre', 'Asta Tvarijonaviciute', 'Encarna Casas-Diaz', 'Nora Navarro', 'Santiago Lavin', 'Ramon Soriguer', 'Monica G Candela', 'Emmanuel Serrano Ferron'], u'2014-11-17', u'The study of fluctuating asymmetry (FA) in living organisms has produced contradictory results over the past few decades. Though the protocol for measuring FA is firmly established, the sources of FA remain unclear in many cases. Our goal is to study the relationship between FA and both the concentration of biomarkers of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the body condition in a medium-sized mammal, the European wild boar (Sus scrofa). Using a Partial Least Squares regression (PLSr) we found a positive significant relationship between oxidative stress and FA but a negative relationship between oxidative stress and body condition of boar. Our results may suggest that FA can be used to assess the physiological cost associated with oxidative stress in mammals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/616/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology'], [u"Servei d'Ecopatologia de Fauna Salvatge (SEFaS), Wildlife Health Service - Departament de Medicina i Cirugia Animal, Universitat Aut\xf2noma de Barcelona", u'Department of Animal Medicine and Surgery, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Regional Campus of International Excellence Mare Nostrum', u'Department of Ecosystem and Public Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of Calgary, 3330 Hospital Drive NW', u'Biodiversity Conservation And Applied Biology, Estaci\xf3n Biol\xf3gica de Do\xf1ana, CSIC', u'Department of Animal Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Campus of International Excellence Mare Nostrum, Universidad de Murcia', u'\u200b Departamento de Biologia & CESAM, Universidade de Aveiro, Campus Universitario de Santiago', u"Servei d'Ecopatologia de Fauna Salvatge (SEFaS), Wildlife Health Service - Departament de Medicina i Cirugia Animal, Universitat Aut\xf2noma de Barcelona"]]
[u'Objective pain sensitivity affects sleep quality in opioid dependent males on methadone maintenance therapy', ['Zalina Zahari', 'Chee Siong Lee', 'Soo Choon Tan', 'Nasir Mohamad', 'Yeong Yeh Lee', 'Rusli Ismail'], u'2014-11-17', u'Aim Pain associated poor sleep quality has been reported among opioid dependent patients on methadone maintenance therapy (MMT) but objective pain data are lacking. This study aimed to investigate the rate of objective pain sensitivity and the relationship between pain sensitivity and sleep quality in this susceptible male population. Methods A total of 168 male patients from MMT clinic in Kelantan, Malaysia were included into the study. Objective pain tolerance to cold pressor test (CPT) was evaluated at 0 hour and at 24 hours after the first CPT. Malay version of the Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index \u2013 PSQI and the subjective opiate withdrawal scale (SOWS) questionnaires were administered to evaluate the quality of sleep and withdrawal symptoms, respectively. Results The mean age of the study participants was 37.22 (SD 6.20) years old. The mean daily methadone dose was 76.64 (SD 37.63) mg/day. The mean averaged SOWS score was 5.43 (SD 6.91). The averaged pain tolerance time ranged from 7 to 300 s with a mean time of 32.16 (SE 2.72) s, slightly below the cut-off score of 37.53 s. More specifically, 78.6% (n = 132) of patients were identified as \u2018pain-sensitive\u2019 (averaged pain tolerance time \u2264 37.53 s), and 36 (21.4%) were \u2018pain-tolerant\u2019 patients (averaged pain tolerance time > 37.53 s). The mean global PSQI score was 5.47 (SD 2.74). The pain-sensitive patients reported poorer sleep quality with mean (SD) of 5.78 (2.80) compared with pain-tolerant patients with mean (SD) of 4.31 (2.18) (p = 0.005). With analysis of covariance, pain-sensitive patients were found to have higher global PSQI scores (adjusted mean 5.76, 95% CI 5.29; 6.22) than pain-tolerant patients (adjusted mean 4.42, 95% CI 3.52; 5.32) (p = 0.010). Conclusions Many opioid dependent male patients on MMT are pain-sensitive. A poorer sleep quality is associated with objective pain sensitivity. Pain and sleep complaints in this susceptible population should not be overlooked.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/615/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Internal Medicine', 'Nursing', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Pharmacy, Hospital Universiti Sains Malaysia', u'Institute for Research in Molecular Medicine (INFORMM), Universiti Sains Malaysia', u'School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia', u'Institute for Research in Molecular Medicine (INFORMM), Universiti Sains Malaysia', u'Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, Universiti Sultan Zainal Abidin', u'School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia', u'Centre of Excellence for Research in AIDS (CERiA), University of Malaya']]
[u'Distinct binding modes and structural changes induced by cAMP and cGMP in the GAF domain of Anabaena adenylyl cyclase, CyaB2', ['Kabir H Biswas', 'Suguna Badireddy', 'Ganesh S Anand', 'Sandhya S Visweswariah'], u'2014-11-15', u'GAF domains are a large family of regulatory domains, and a subset are found associated with enzymes involved in cyclic nucleotide (cNMP) metabolism such as adenylyl cyclases and phosphodiesterases. CyaB2, an adenylyl cyclase from Anabaena, contains two GAF domains in tandem at the N-terminus and an adenylyl cyclase domain at the C-terminus. Cyclic AMP, but not cGMP, binding to the GAF domains of CyaB2 increases the activity of the cyclase domain leading to enhanced synthesis of cAMP. Here we show that the isolated GAFb domain of CyaB2 can bind both cAMP and cGMP, and enhanced specificity for cAMP is observed only when both the GAFa and the GAFb domains are present in tandem (GAFab domain). In silico docking and mutational analysis indicated distinct modes of binding of cAMP and cGMP to the GAFb domain. Structural changes associated with ligand binding to the GAF domains could not be detected by the highly sensitive Bioluminescence Resonance Energy Transfer (BRET) experiments. Amide hydrogen-deuterium exchange mass spectrometry (HDXMS) experiments, however, revealed the structural basis for cAMP-induced allosteric regulation of the GAF domains, and differences in the structural changes induced by cAMP and cGMP binding to the GAF domain. Thus, our results provide an insight into structural mechanisms of ligand binding to GAF domains in general, which can be utilized in developing molecules that modulate the allosteric regulation by GAF domains in pharmacologically relevant proteins.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/614/', ['Biochemistry'], [u'Department of Molecular Reproduction, Development and Genetics, Indian Institute of Science', u'Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Myocardial force generation and anoxia tolerance in the common cockle, Cerastoderma edule', ['William Joyce', 'Karlina Ozolina', 'Holly A Shiels'], u'2014-11-14', u'The myocardium of molluscs exhibits profound anoxia tolerance, however the cellular mechanisms underlying heart performance during normoxia and anoxia are not well understood. In the present study we investigated the role of the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) during normoxia and chemical anoxia (2 mM sodium cyanide) in electrically paced ventricle preparations from the common cockle (Cerastoderma edule) at ~19\xb0C. Acute anoxia caused a substantial increase in resting tension but did not significantly affect the force of contraction, rate of contraction or rate of relaxation in myocardial preparations. SR inhibition (ryanodine, 10 \xb5M; thapsigargin, 2 \xb5M) attenuated the increase in resting tension, and also caused a significant decrease in the force of contraction during anoxia. During normoxia, SR inhibition reduced the force and rate of contraction by 20-30 % at contraction frequencies of 0.2 Hz and 0.5 Hz. SR inhibition also elicited an increase in resting tension at 0.5 Hz. Our results suggest that the SR plays a role in maintaining cardiac performance during anoxia in cockle myocardium. Furthermore, the SR is operative during normoxia and is relatively more important in the cockle heart than in many ectothermic vertebrates. As efforts to understand the evolution of the SR are advanced, anoxia tolerant invertebrates may serve as valuable model organisms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/612/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester']]
[u'Temporal changes in nasopharyngeal carriage of Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 1 genotypes in healthy Gambians before and after the 7-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine', ['Chinelo Ebruke', 'Anna Roca', 'Uzochukwu Egere', 'Ousainou Darboe', 'Philip C Hill', 'Brian Greenwood', 'Brendan W Wren', 'Richard A Adegbola', 'Martin Antonio'], u'2014-11-12', u'Streptococcus pneumoniae serotype 1 is one of the leading causes of invasive pneumococcal disease. However this invasive serotype is hardly found in nasopharyngeal asymptomatic carriage and therefore large epidemiological studies are needed to assess the dynamics of serotype 1 infection. Within the context of a large cluster randomized trial conducted in rural Gambia to assess the impact of PCV-7 vaccination on nasopharyngeal carriage, we present an ancillary study describing the prevalence of nasopharyngeal carriage of pneumococcal serotype 1 and temporal changes of its more frequent genotypes. Nasopharyngeal swabs (NPS) were collected before PCV-7 vaccination (December 2003-May 2004) and up to 30 months after PCV-7 vaccination (post-vaccination periods 1 to 3: July 2006 \u2013 March 2007; April 2007 \u2013 March 2008 and April 2008 \u2013 Feb 2009). S. pneumoniae serotype 1 were genotyped by MLST. Serotype 1 was recovered from 87 (0.71%) of 12,319 NPS samples collected. In the pre-vaccination period, prevalence of serotype 1 was 0.47% in both study arms. In the post-vaccination periods, prevalence in the fully vaccinated villages ranged between 0.08% in period 1 and 0.165% in period 2; while prevalence in partly vaccinated villages was between 0.17% in period 3 and 1.34% in period 2. Overall four different genotypes were obtained with ST3081 the most prevalent (60.71%) followed by ST618 929.76%). ST3081 was found only in post-vaccination period 2 and 3 while ST618 had disappeared in post-vaccination period 3. Distribution of these major genotypes was similar in both study arms.Emergence of ST3081 and concomitant disappearance of ST618 may suggest a change in the molecular epidemiology of pneumococcal serotype 1 in this region. This change is not likely to be associated with the introduction of PCV-7 which lacks serotype 1 as it was observed simultaneously in both study arms. Future population-based epidemiological studies will provide further evidence of substantive changes in the pneumococcal serotype 1 epidemiology and the likely mechanisms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/611/', ['Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Vaccinology Theme, Medical Research Council Unit', u'Faculty of Infectious and Tropical Diseases, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine', u'Disease Control & Elimination  Theme, Medical Research Council Unit', u'Centre for International Health, School of Medicine, University of Otago', u'GlaxoSmithKline Vaccines, Wavre', u'Microbiology and Infection Unit, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick']]
[u'Leaf litter decomposition rates increase with rising mean annual temperature in Hawaiian tropical montane wet forests', ['Lori D Bothwell', 'Paul C Selmants', 'Christian P Giardina', 'Creighton M. Litton'], u'2014-11-12', u'Decomposing litter in forest ecosystems supplies nutrients to plants, carbon to heterotrophic soil microorganisms and is a large source of CO2 to the atmosphere. Despite its essential role in carbon and nutrient cycling, the temperature sensitivity of leaf litter decay in tropical forest ecosystems remains poorly resolved, especially in tropical montane wet forests where the warming trend may be amplified compared to tropical wet forests at lower elevations. We quantified leaf litter decomposition rates along a highly constrained 5.2 \xb0C mean annual temperature (MAT) gradient in tropical montane wet forests on the Island of Hawaii. Dominant vegetation, substrate type and age, soil moisture, and disturbance history are all nearly constant across this gradient, allowing us to isolate the effect of rising MAT on leaf litter decomposition and nutrient release. Leaf litter decomposition rates were a positive linear function of MAT, causing the residence time of leaf litter on the forest floor to decline by ~31 days for each 1 \xb0C increase in MAT. Our estimate of the Q10 temperature coefficient for leaf litter decomposition was 2.17, within the commonly reported range for heterotrophic organic matter decomposition (1.5 \u2013 2.5) across a broad range of ecosystems. The percentage of leaf litter nitrogen (N) remaining after six months declined linearly with increasing MAT from ~ 88% of initial N at the coolest site to ~74% at the warmest site. The lack of net N immobilization during all three litter collection periods at all MAT plots indicates that N was not limiting to leaf litter decomposition, regardless of temperature. These results suggest that leaf litter decay in tropical montane wet forests may be more sensitive to rising MAT than in tropical lowland wet forests, and that increased rates of N release from decomposing litter could delay or prevent progressive N limitation to net primary productivity with climate warming.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/609/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Natural Sciences Division, University of Hawaii at Hilo', u'Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Management, University of Hawaii at Manoa', u'Institute of Pacific Islands Forestry, Pacific Southwest Research Station, USDA Forest Service']]
[u'Combining Weight-Length Relationships and condition factors to estimate the population structure for Skipjack tuna in the Western and Central Pacific Ocean', ['Shaofei Jin', 'Xiaodong Yan', 'Heng Zhang', 'Wei Fan'], u'2014-11-12', u'The arguments between Weight-Length Relationship (WLR) and Condition Factor (K) have been lasted since the day they occurred. This paper described WLRs and Ks of Skipjack tuna (Katsuwonus pelamis) samples in Purse Seine fisheries from three cruises (August-September cruise (A-S) in 2009, November-December cruise (N-D) in 2012, and June-July cruise (J-J) in 2013) in the Central and Western Pacific Ocean (CWPO). The results showed that fork length of more than 70% of specimen was below 60 cm (76% in A-S, 87% in N-D, and 73% in J-J). b values of WLRs in class of fork length > 60cm were below 3 significantly (P = 0.062), while b values when fork length < 60 cm were > 3 significantly (P = 0.028). Moreover, K values in different fork length classes for each cruises had one turning point: 60-65cm for J-J, 60-65cm for N-D, and 55-60cm for A-S, and K values were still significantly larger than those of fork length < 40cm (P = 0.06). However, b values at larger fishes were significantly smaller than those of fork length <40cm. We suggest to combine WLRs and K values at different growth phases for evaluating population structure for skipjack tuna.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/610/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Earth Surface Processes and Resource Ecology, Beijing Normal University', u'Key Laboratory of East China Sea & Oceanic Fishery Resources Exploitation and Utilization, Ministry of Agriculture, P. R. China, East China Sea fisheries Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Fishery Sciences', u'University of Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'A Bayesian approach to optimizing stem cell cryopreservation protocols', ['Sammy Sambu'], u'2014-11-12', u'Cryopreservation is beset with the challenge of protocol alignment across a wide range of cell types and process variables. By taking a cross-sectional assessment of previously published cryopreservation data (sample means and standard errors) as preliminary meta-data, a decision tree learning analysis (DTLA) was performed to develop an understanding of target survival based on different approaches. Briefly, using a DTLA approach, a clear direction on the decision process for selection of methods was developed with key choices being the cooling rate, plunge temperature on the one hand and biomaterial choice, use of composites (sugars and proteins), loading procedure and cell location in 3D scaffold. Since machine learning and generalized approaches were employed, these metadata could be used to develop posterior probabilities via Na\xefve Bayes Classification (NBC) for combinatorial approaches that were not initially captured in the metadata. These results showed that newer protocol choices could lead to improved cell survival consistent with physical reports. In conclusion, this article proposes the use of DTLA models and NBC for the improvement of modern cryopreservation techniques through an integrative approach.Keywords: 3D cryopreservation, decision-tree learning (DTL), sugars, mouse embryonic stem cells, meta-data, Na\xefve Bayes Classifier (NBC)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/608/', ['Bioengineering', 'Statistics'], [u'Other, Private Research']]
[u'Population dynamics and orientation of the central Andean cushion Azorella compacta', ['Catherine Kleier', 'Tim Trenary', 'Eric A Graham', 'Philip W Rundel'], u'2014-11-12', u'Azorella compacta (llareta; Apiaceae), a large woody cushion plant, is a remarkable species forming dense cushions and characterizing the high elevation rocky slopes of the central Andean Altiplano. Field studies of an elevational gradient of A. compacta within Lauca National Park in northern Chile found a reverse J-shape distribution of size classes of individuals with abundant small plants at all elevations. A new elevational limit for A. compacta was found at 5250 m. A series of cushions marked 14 years earlier showed either slight shrinkage or small degrees of growth up to 2.2 cm yr-1. Despite their irregularity in growth, cushions of A. compacta show a strong orientation, centered on a north-facing aspect and angle of about 20o from horizontal. This exposure to maximize solar irradiance closely matches previous observations of a population favoring north-facing slopes at a similar angle. Populations of A. compacta appear to be stable, or even expanding, with young plants abundant and recolonization of disturbed habitats.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/607/', ['Ecology'], [u'Department of Biology, Regis University', u'Department of Mathematics, Regis University', u'Nexleaf Analytics', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California']]
[u'Lung cancer incidence decreases with elevation: evidence for oxygen as an inhaled carcinogen', ['Kamen P. Simeonov', 'Daniel S. Himmelstein'], u'2014-11-12', u'The atmospheric concentration of oxygen, a driver of free radical damage and tumorigenesis, decreases sharply with rising elevation. To understand whether ambient oxygen concentrations play a role in human carcinogenesis, we characterized age-adjusted cancer incidence (compiled by the National Cancer Institute from 2005\u20132009) across counties of the elevation-varying Western United States and compared trends displayed by respiratory cancer (lung) and non-respiratory cancers (breast, colorectal, and prostate). To adjust for important demographic and cancer-risk factors, 8\u201312 covariates were considered for each cancer. We produced sensible regression models that captured known risks. Models demonstrated that elevation strongly, negatively associates with lung cancer incidence (p < 10\u221216), but not with incidence of non-respiratory cancers. For every 1000 meter rise in elevation, lung cancer incidence decreased by 7.23 [99% CI: 5.18\u20139.29] cases per 100,000 individuals, equivalent to 12.7% of the mean incidence, 56.8. As a predictor of lung cancer incidence, elevation was second only to smoking prevalence in terms of significance and effect size. Furthermore, no evidence of uncontrolled confounding or ecological fallacy was detected: the lung cancer association was robust to varying regression models, county stratification, and population subgrouping; additionally seven environmental correlates of elevation, such as exposure to sunlight and fine particulate matter, could not capture the association. Overall, our findings suggest the presence of an inhaled carcinogen inherently and inversely tied to elevation, offering epidemiological support for oxygen-driven tumorigenesis. Finally, highlighting the need to consider elevation in studies of lung cancer, we demonstrated that previously reported inverse lung cancer associations with radon and UVB became insignificant after accounting for elevation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/587/', ['Epidemiology', 'Oncology', 'Public Health', 'Respiratory Medicine', 'Statistics'], [u'Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania', u'Biological & Medical Informatics, University of California, San Francisco']]
[u'Attitudes of medical students in Pakistan toward the doctor-patient relationship', ['Waqas Ahmad', 'Edward Krupat', 'Yumna Asmaa', 'Noor-E- Fatima', 'Rayan Attique', 'Umar Mahmood'], u'2014-11-11', u'Background. We initiated this study with the aim to assess the leaning of medical students towards either a doctor-centered or a patient-centered care and explore the effects of personal attributes on it like gender, academic year etc. of the students.\nMethods. A cross-sectional study was conducted between July-Sep 2013. The study population consisted of 1274 medical students in years 1-5 from two medical colleges. English version of PPOS was used to assess attitudes of medical students towards doctor-patient relationship. The relationship between PPOS scores and individual characteristics like gender, academic year etc. were examined by using Independent t-test and one way ANOVA.\nResults. A total of 792 students formed the final sample. Characteristics associated with most patient-centered attitudes were being in 4th academic year, married, being a foreigner and belonging to a Private college (p<0.05). Characteristics associated with most doctor-centered attitudes were being in 2nd academic year, divorced, having a local origin and belonging to a Govt. college (p<0.05). Gender and having doctor parents had no bearing, statistically, on the attitudes.\nConclusion. Despite ongoing debate and emphasis on a patient-centered curriculum, our study suggests that current curriculum and its teachings are not producing the results they are designed to achieve. Students should be adequately exposed to the patients from the beginning of their medical education in clinical settings which are more sympathetic to a patient-centered care.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/606/', ['Ethical Issues', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry', u'Center for Evaluation, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Identification of the underlying factor structure of the Derriford Appearance Scale 24', ['Timothy P Moss', 'Victoria Lawson', 'Paul White', 'Appearance Research Collaboration'], u'2014-11-10', u'Background. The Derriford Appearance Scale24 (DAS24) is a widely used measure of distress and dysfunction in relation to self-consciousness of appearance. It has been used in clinical and research settings, and translated into numerous European and Asian languages. Hitherto, no study has conducted an analysis to determine the underlying factor structure of the scale. Methods. A large (n=1265) sample of community and hospital patients with a visible difference were recruited face to face or by post, and completed the DAS24. Results. A two factor solution was found to be the best fit to the data. A main factor, general self consciousness (GSC), was represented by 18 items. Six items comprised a second factor, sexual and body self-consciousness (SBSC). The SBSC scale demonstrated greater sensitivity and specificity in identifying distress for sexually significant areas of the body. Discussion. The factor structure of the DAS24 facilitates a more nuanced interpretation of scores using this scale. Two conceptually and statistically coherent sub-scales were identified. The SBSC subscale offers a means of identifying distress and dysfunction around sexually significant areas of the body not previously possible with this scale.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/605/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'Centre for Appearance Research, University of the West of England (Bristol)', u'Department of Psychology, BPP University']]
[u'An experimental search strategy retrieves more precise results than PubMed and Google for questions about medical interventions', ['Robert G Badgett', 'Daniel P Dylla', 'Susan D Megison', 'E Glynn Harmon'], u'2014-11-10', u'Objective: To compare the precision of a search strategy designed specifically to retrieve randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and systematic reviews of RCTs with search strategies designed for broader purposes. Methods: We designed an experimental search strategy that automatically revised searches up to five times by using increasingly restrictive queries as long at least 50 citations were retrieved. We compared the ability of the experimental and alternative strategies to retrieve studies relevant to 312 test questions. The primary outcome, search precision, was defined for each strategy as the proportion of relevant, high quality citations among the first 50 citations retrieved. Results: The experimental strategy had the highest median precision (5.5%; interquartile range [IQR]: 0% - 12%) followed by the narrow strategy of the PubMed Clinical Queries (4.0%; IQR: 0% - 10%). The experimental strategy found the most high quality citations (median 2; IQR: 0 - 6) and was the strategy most likely to find at least one high quality citation (73% of searches; 95% confidence interval 68% - 78%). All comparisons were statistically significant. Conclusions: The experimental strategy performed the best in all outcomes although all strategies had low precision.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/604/', ['Evidence Based Medicine'], [u'Department of Internal Medicine, Kansas University School of Medicine - Wichita', u'Katy Campus Library, Houston Community College NW', u'No institutional affiliation', u'School of Information, University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Ingestion of plastics at sea: does debris size really matter?', ['Julia Reisser', 'Maira Proietti', 'Jeremy Shaw', 'Charitha B Pattiaratchi'], u'2014-11-10', u'Most of our knowledge on plastic ingestion by zooplankton comes from experiments exposing invertebrates to plastic particles smaller than their feeding apparatus. By examining millimetre-sized marine plastics using a scanning electron microscope, we putatively identified some surface textures as feeding marks produced by invertebrates grazing upon the plastic biofilm. We observed sub-parallel linear scrapes with 5-14 \u03bcm spacing, which is similar to typical distances between teeth of the mandibular gnathobases of copepods. We also observed peculiar rounded marks close to an unidentified marine worm. Small portions of the plastic particles were apparently removed, and perhaps ingested, during these putative grazing activities. Thus, we suggest that (1) plastic biofouling induces plastic ingestion, and (2) plastic pieces must not necessarily be smaller than the organism for a feeding interaction to occur. Experiments exposing invertebrates to millimeter-sized plastics may support these suggestions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/603/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'School of Civil, Environmental, and Mining Engineering & UWA Oceans Institute, University of Western Australia', u'Instituto de Oceanografia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande', u'Centre for Microscopy, Characterisation and Analysis, University of Western Australia']]
[u'Metal to phosphorus stoichiometries for freshwater phytoplankton in three Scottish lakes', ['Aine M Gormley-Gallagher', 'Richard Douglas', 'Brian Rippey'], u'2014-11-09', u'Simultaneous measurements of changes in phytoplankton biomass and the metal and phosphorus (P) content of cells have been captured to attest metal to P stoichiometries for freshwater phytoplankton. Three remote Scottish lakes that have received high, medium or low metal contamination from the atmosphere were selected for study. Phytoplankton cells were collected, their biomass determined microscopically, and Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry was used to measure their lead (Pb), cadmium (Cd), mercury (Hg), copper (Cu), zinc (Zn), nickel (Ni), chromium (Cr), manganese (Mn), cobalt (Co) and P content. A greater phytoplankton biomass in the lakes resulted in significant algae growth dilution of the mass-specific Pb, Cd, Hg, Cu, Ni and Cr in the phytoplankton. Changes in the phytoplankton cell count and their Hg, Pb, Cd, Cu, Mn, Co, Ni and Cr concentrations showed the process of algae bloom dilution to be subject to exponential decay, which accelerated in the order of Mn < Cu < Ni < Pb and Cd < Cr and Hg < Co. This indicated a metabolic and detoxification mechanism was involved in the active selection of metals. For the first time simultaneous measurements of metals and P stoichiometry in freshwater phytoplankton are reported. The mean metal to P stoichiometry generated was (C106P1N16)1000Pb0.019Hg0.00004Cu0.013Cd0.005Cr0.2Co0.0008 Mn0.2Ni0.012 based on the field measurements and the Redfield average C, N and P stoichiometry of (CH2O)106(NH3)16H3PO4.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/602/', ['Environmental Sciences'], [u'Freshwater Science Research Institute, University of Ulster']]
[u'Species loss in developed landscapes: an experimental evaluation', ['Alex Shepack', 'Kealoha Freidenburg', 'David Skelly'], u'2014-11-08', u'Conversion of landscapes for human uses is widely associated with loss of biodiversity. Here we focus on limits to distribution defined by intensity of landscape development. Using a translocation experiment, we ask does degradation of wetland habitat contribute to species loss? Wood frog larvae (Rana sylvatica = Lithobates sylvaticus), were reared within enclosures in 7 ponds harboring populations of wood frogs and in 5 ponds where they are absent. Survival, growth rate, and development rate were equivalent between \u2018present\u2019 and \u2018absent\u2019 ponds. While it is clear that landscapes surrounding \u2018absent\u2019 ponds had been heavily influenced by human use, we find no evidence that such wetlands provide inferior habitat for wood frog recruitment. Their absence in human altered landscapes may stem from influences outside of pond basins. The results provide a caution to the typically unexamined presumption that relictual habitats in developed landscapes are degraded in their utility for wildlife.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/601/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Biological Sciences, Southern Illinois University', u'School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, Yale University']]
[u'Socioeconomic status and health inequalities among older people from Bangladeshi ethnic minority group in England', ['Muhammad Z Hossain'], u'2014-11-08', u'The study aims to examine what socio-economic, health and psychological problems of older Bangladeshi (55 years and older) experience in later life and what members of the Bangladeshi community perceive to be the reasons for these difficulties. It also aims at finding out the extent to which gerontological theories, that highlight the problems associated with later life, reflect the experiences of older people across ethnic and cultural differences in the United Kingdom. The research has been carried out in the London Borough of Croydon where a small number of\nBangladeshi communities live. Semi-structured interviews were conducted with older people from the mixer of men and women so as to answer the above research question i.e. the problems and the effects of ageing process far from home where they made their later life abode. In a qualitative semi - structured interview study in the London Borough of Croydon, 17 older persons from the Bangladeshi communities were asked about their problems of ageing and how they feel about living and growing old in a western country.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/600/', ['Geriatrics', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Health Sciences and Social Work, University of Portsmouth']]
[u'Continued Dispensing: What medications do patients believe should be available?', ['Salem Hasn Abukres', 'Kreshnik. Hoti', 'Jeffery David Hughes'], u'2014-11-08', u'Background. Continued Dispensing (CD) is a new medication supply method for certain medications in Australia. It aims to prevent treatment interruption as a result of patients\u2019 inability to obtain a new valid prescription. The only currently eligible patients for this service are statin and oral contraceptive users who are: using these medications for 6 months or more, did not utilise the CD method during the last 12 months, and cannot obtain an immediate appointment with the prescriber in order to get a new prescription. This study aimed to investigate patients\u2019 attitudes towards potential extension and expansion of this medication supply method. Methods. A randomly selected 301 users of these medications from all Australian States were recruited using Computer Assisted Telephone Interview (CATI). Result. The majority of the participants (73.3%) did not agree with current restriction on CD utilisation frequency. They also supported, to varying degrees, inclusion of all the proposed medications (support ranged from 44.2 - 78.4%). Participants who suffered from a specific disease did not differ significantly from those without the disease except in case of patients with depression (p= 0.001 ). Conclusions. Participants of this study strongly supported both CD extension and expansion. A critical review of the current version of CD is highly recommended in order to enhance CD capability to achieve its goals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/598/', ['Health Policy', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Pharmacy, Curtin University']]
[u'Interethnic diversity of the CD209 (rs4804803) gene promoter polymorphisms in African but not American sickle cell disease', ['Jenelle A Noble', 'Kimberley C Duru', 'Aldiouma Guindo', 'Li Yi', 'Dapa A Diallo', 'Bolaji Thomas'], u'2014-11-08', u'Elucidating the genomic diversity of CD209 gene promoter polymorphisms could assist in clarifying disease pathophysiology as well as contribution to co-morbidities. CD209 gene promoter polymorphisms have been shown to be associated with susceptibility to infection. We hypothesize that CD209 mutant variants occur at a higher frequency among Africans and in sickle cell disease. We analyzed the frequency of the CD209 gene (rs4804803) in healthy control and sickle cell disease (SCD) populations and determined association with disease. We obtained genomic DNA from 145 SCD and 244 control Africans (from Mali), 331 SCD and 379 control African Americans and 159 Caucasians. Comparative analysis among and between groups was carried out by polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP). Per ethnic diversification, we found significant disparity in genotypic (23.4% versus 16.9% versus 3.2%) and allelic frequencies (36.1% versus 25.1% versus 11.6%) of the mutant variant of the CD209 (snp 309A/G) gene promoter between Africans, African Americans and Caucasians respectively. Surprisingly, there was a wide disparity in the genotypic and allelic frequencies among African SCD versus healthy controls (10.4% versus 23.4% (genotypes) and 25.2% versus 36.1% (alleles), which is completely absent among African Americans. Comparing SCD groups, there was no difference between Africans and Americans, implying a lack of association between CD209 polymorphisms and sickle cell disease in either population. The higher frequency of CD209 mutant variants in the non-SCD group reveals an impaired capacity to mount an immune response to infectious diseases. We conclude that CD209 polymorphism play a major role in susceptibility to infectious pathogens and could potentially delineate susceptibility to and severity of co-morbidities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/597/', ['Genetics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, Rochester Institute of Technology', u'Centre de Recherche et de Lutte contre la Drepanocytose, University of Bamako', u'School of Statistics, Shanxi University of Finance and Economics']]
[u"Effectiveness of telenutrition in a women's weight loss program", ['Isaac E Kuzmar', 'Ernesto Cortes-Castell', 'Mercedes Rizo'], u'2014-11-06', u'Objective: To evaluate the effectiveness of telenutrition versus traditional nutritional consultation for obese patients. Methods: A comparative clinical study was conducted among 233 (including 20 dropouts and 60 failures) obese or overweight women who consulted a nutrition clinic in Barranquilla (Colombia) for nutritional assessment by telenutrition or traditional attention that includes a weekly follow-up consultation over 16 weeks, food consumption patterns, Body Mass Index (BMI, kg/m2) register, waist and hip circumference register. Treatment response and difference between telenutrition and traditional consultation were made according to BMI, waist, hip and initial-waist/height ratio. Data\xb4s nonparametric statistical comparison was made. Results: In 68 (29.2%) women who chose traditional attention, 9 (37.5%) dropped out, 24 (40%) failed and 35 (23.5%) were successful, showing 1.4%(1.0 SD) BMI loss, 5.8% (3.4 SD) in waist circumference, 4.5% (2.8 SD) in hip circumference and 0.04% (0.02 SD) in iwaist/height ratio. In 165 (70.8%) women who chose telenutrition, 15 (62.5%) dropped out, 36 (60%) failed and 114 (76.5%) were successful, showing 1.1% (1.0 SD) BMI loss, 5.0% (3.2 SD) in waist circumference, 3.5% (3.1 SD) in hip circumference and 0.03% (0.02 SD) in iwaist/height ratio. A significance level of p<0.05 is considered. Conclusion: Telenutrition has a failure or dropout risk factor about half values of traditional consultation with slightly statistically significant differences. This study concludes that telenutrition can support or sometimes replace the traditional consultation when developing weight loss programs in obese women.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/595/', ['Global Health', 'Nutrition', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Alicante', u'School of Medicine, Miguel Hern\xe1ndez University']]
[u'Validation of the Emotiv EPOC EEG system for research quality auditory event-related potentials in children', ['Nicholas A Badcock', 'Kathryn A Preece', 'Bianca de Wit', 'Katharine Glenn', 'Nora Fieder', 'Johnson Thie', 'Genevieve McArthur'], u'2014-11-06', u'Background. Previous work has demonstrated that a commercial gaming electroencephalography (EEG) system, Emotiv EPOC, can be adjusted to provide valid auditory event-related potentials (ERPs) in adults that are comparable to ERPs recorded by a research-grade EEG system, Neuroscan. The aim of the current study was to determine if the same was true for children. Method. An adapted Emotive EPOC system and Neuroscan system were used to make simultaneous EEG recordings in nineteen 6- to 12-year-old children under \u201cpassive\u201d and \u201cactive\u201d listening conditions. In the passive condition, children were instructed to watch a silent DVD and ignore 566 standard (1000 Hz) and 100 deviant (1200 Hz) tones. In the active condition, they listened to the same stimuli, and were asked to count the number of \u2018high\u2019 (i.e. deviant) tones. Results. Intraclass correlations (ICCs) indicated that the ERP morphology recorded with the two systems was very similar for the P1, N1, P2, P2, and P3 ERP peaks (r = .78 to .95) in both passive and active conditions, but was poor for the mismatch negativity ERP component (MMN; r < .30). There were few differences between peak amplitude and latency estimates for the two systems. Conclusions. An adapted EPOC EEG system can be used to index children\u2019s late auditory ERP peaks (i.e. P1, N1, P2, N2, P3) but not their MMN ERP component. Subjects: Psychiatry and Psychology Keywords: EEG, ERP, Emotiv EPOC, Validation, Mismatchnegativity, MMN, Intraclass correlation, Methods, Signal processing, Auditory odd-ball, Children', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/593/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Macquarie University', u'Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University', u'Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University', u'MultiLit', u'School of Electrical and Information Engineering, University of Sydney']]
[u'The effects of venting and decompression on Yellow Tang (Zebrasoma flavescens) in the ornamental aquarium fish trade', ['Emily S Munday', 'Brian N Tissot', 'Jerry R Heidel', 'Tim Miller-Morgan'], u'2014-11-05', u'Each year, over 45 countries export 30 million fish from coral reefs as part of the global marine ornamental aquarium trade. This catch volume is affected by collection methods that cause mortality. Barotrauma caused by forced ascent of collected fish from depth has been determined to be a cause of post-collection mortality. The detrimental effects of barotrauma can be prevented by decompression, or mitigated with venting (puncturing the swim bladder to release expanded internal gas). To further evaluate the effects of collection methods on fish stress and mortality, we conducted the first comprehensive study on the effects of barotrauma prevention and mitigation practices on marine ornamental fish. We examined the effects of three ascent treatments, each with decompression stops of different frequency and duration coupled with or without venting, on sublethal effects and mortality in yellow tang (Zebrasoma flavescens), using histology and serum cortisol measurements. In Z. flavescens subjected to ascent without decompression stops or venting, a mean post-collection mortality of 6.2% occurred within 24h of capture. Common collection methods in the fishery, ascent without or with one decompression stop followed by venting, resulted in no mortality. Histopathologic examination of heart, liver, head kidney, and swim bladder tissues in fish 0d and 21d post-collection revealed no significant lesions in any treatment group. Ascent without decompression stops resulted in significantly higher serum cortisol than ascent with many decompression stops, and venting alone did not affect cortisol. Future work should examine links in the supply chain following collection to determine if further handling and transport stressors affect survivorship and sublethal effects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/591/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Clark Fork Watershed Education Program, The Institute for Educational Opportunities, Montana Tech of the University of Montana', u'School of the Environment, Washington State University Vancouver', u'Marine Laboratory, Humboldt State University', u'Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory, College of Veterinary Medicine, Oregon State University', u'Aquatic Animal Health Program, Oregon Sea Grant, Hatfield Marine Science Center']]
[u'Arenysaurus ardevoli, first paleoneuroanatomical description of a European hadrosaurid', ['Penelope Cruzado-Caballero', 'Josep Fortuny', 'Sergio Llacer', 'Jose Ignacio JI Canudo'], u'2014-11-05', u'The neuroanatomy of hadrosaurid dinosaurs is well known from North America and Asia. In Europe only a few cranial remains have been recovered with the braincase. Arenysaurus is the first European endocast for which the paleoneuroanatomy has been studied. The resulting data have enabled us to draw ontogenetic, phylogenetic and functional inferences. Arenysaurus preserves the endocast and the inner ear. This cranial material was CT-scanned, and a 3D-model was generated. The endocast morphology supports a general pattern for hadrosaurids with some characters that distinguish to a subfamily level, such as a brain cavity anteroposteriorly shorter or the angle of the major axis of the cerebral hemisphere to the horizontal in lambeosaurines. Both characters are present in the endocast of Arenysaurus. Moreover, osteological features indicate an adult ontogenetic stage while some paleoneuroanatomical features are indicative of a subadult ontogenetic stage and even a juvenile ontogenetic stage. Finally, a comparison with other hadrosaurids reveals that the low values for the angle of the dural peak may be an autapomorphy exclusive to the Parasaurolophus genus. It is hypothesized that the presence of puzzling characters that suggest different ontogenetic stages for this specimen, may reflect some degree of dwarfism in Arenysaurus. Regarding the inner ear, its structure shows differences from the ornithopod clade with respect to the height of the semicircular canals. These differences could lead to a decrease in the compensatory movements of eyes and head, with important implications for the paleobiology and behavior of hadrosaurid taxa such as Edmontosaurus, Parasaurolophus and Arenysaurus. These differences in the vestibular system could be used as a phylogenetical signal. The endocranial morphology of European hadrosaurids sheds new light on the evolution of this group and may reflect the conditions in the archipelago where these animals lived during the Late Cretaceous.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/590/', ['Neuroscience', 'Paleontology'], [u'CONICEET - Universidad Nacional de R\xedo Negro, Instituto de Investigaci\xf3n en Paleobiolog\xeda y Geolog\xeda', u'Institut Catal\xe0 de Paleontologia', u'Universitat Polit\xe8cnica de Catalunya - BarcelonaTech', u'Departmento Ciencias de la Tierra, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Zaragoza, Universidad de Zaragoza']]
[u'Transcriptome analyses of Anguillicola crassus from native and novel hosts', ['Emanuel Heitlinger', 'Horst H. Taraschewski', 'Urszula Weclawski', 'Karim Gharbi', 'Mark Blaxter'], u'2014-11-05', u'Anguillicola crassus is a swim bladder nematode of eels. The parasite is native to the Asian eel Anguilla japonica, but was introduced to Europe and the European eel Anguilla anguilla in the early 1980s. A Taiwanese source has been proposed for this introduction. In the new host in the recipient area, the parasite appears to be more pathogenic. As a reason for these differences, genetically fixed differences in infectivity and development between Taiwanese and European A.crassus have been described and disentangled from plasticity induced by different host environments.To explore whether transcriptional regulation is involved in these lifecycle differences, we have analysed a \u201ccommon garden\u201d, cross infection experiment, using deep-sequencing transcriptomics. Surprisingly, in the face of clear phenotypic differences in life history traits, we identified no significant differences in gene expression between parasite populations or between experimental host species. From 120,000 SNPs identified in the transcriptome data we found that European A. crassus were not a genetic subset of the Taiwanese nematodes sampled. The loci that have the major contribution to the European-Taiwanese population differentiation show an enrichment of synonymous and non-coding polymorphism. This argues against positive selection in population differentiation. However, genes involved in protein processing in the endoplasmatic reticulum membrane and genes bearing secretion signal sequences were enriched in the set of genes most differentiated between European and Taiwanese A. crassus. These genes could be a source for the phenotypically visible genetically fixed differences between European and Taiwanese A. crassus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/589/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Parasitology'], [u'Department for Molecular Parasitology, Institute for Biology, Humboldt University Berlin', u'Department of Ecology and Parasitology, Karlsruhe Institute for Technology', u'Edinburgh Genomics, The Ashworth Laboratories, The University of Edinburgh', u'Institute of Evolutionary Biology, The Ashworth Laboratories, The University of Edinburgh']]
[u'Understanding the role of Oryza sativa OsPILS (PIN Like) genes in auxin signaling', ['Tapan Kumar Mohanta', 'Nibedita Mohanta'], u'2014-11-04', u'The phytohormone auxin is one of the most important signaling molecule that undergo accumulation or depletion in temporal or spatial manner due to wide arrays of changes in developmental or stress programme. Proper distribution, maintenance and homeostasis of auxin molecules across the plant system is one of the most important phenomena. The distribution and homeostasis of auxin is maintained by auxin transport system across the plant. Auxin transportation is carried out by auxin transporter family proteins, popularly known as auxin efflux carriers (PINs). Besides, auxin efflux carrier family proteins, a sub-family of auxin efflux carriers (OsPILS) being identified from Oryza sativa and reported here. Oryza sativa encodes for seven putative sub-cellularly localized transmembrane PILS proteins. Differential expression of OsPILS genes are found to be regulated by auxin and cytokinin dependent manner. In auxin treated plants, all OsPILS genes are up-regulated in leaf tissues and down regulated in root tissues during third week time point. In cytokinin treated plants, maximum of OsPILS genes were up-regulated both in leafs and roots tissues during third week time period. Regulation of gene expression of OsPILS genes by auxin and cytokinin during third week time period reflects its important roles during plant growth and development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/586/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Developmental Biology', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Biotechnology, Yeungnam University', u'Department of Biotechnology, North Orissa University']]
[u'Is the low-cost EyeTribe eye tracker any good for research?', ['Edwin Dalmaijer'], u'2014-11-04', u'Eye-tracking technology is becoming increasingly cheaper, both on the hardware and on the software front. Currently, the EyeTribe tracker is the most inexpensive commercial eye tracker in the world, at a price of $99. The low costs make it a potentially interesting resource for research, but no objective testing of its quality has been performed yet. Here the EyeTribe tracker is compared with an EyeLink 1000, a high-quality video eye tracker. Results indicate that the spatial precision and accuracy are good enough for fixation checking, point-of-regard analyses, and pupilometry. However, the low sampling rate renders the device unsuitable for testing high-accuracy saccade metrics. Additionally, open-source toolboxes for Matlab and Python, and a plug-in for OpenSesame are presented, which can be used to interface with the EyeTribe tracker.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/585/', ['Neuroscience', 'Ophthalmology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford']]
[u'Using network clustering to predict copy number variations associated with health disparities', ['Yi Jiang', 'Hong HQ Qin', 'Li Yang'], u'2014-11-03', u'Substantial health disparities exist between African Americans and Caucasians in the United States. Copy number variations (CNVs) are one form of human genetic variations that have been linked with complex diseases and often occur at different frequencies among African Americans and Caucasian populations. Here, we aimed to investigate whether CNVs with differential frequencies can contribute to health disparities from the perspective of gene networks. We inferred network clusters from human gene/protein networks based on two different data sources. We then evaluated each network cluster for the occurrences of known pathogenic genes and genes located in CNVs with different population frequencies, and used false discovery rates to rank network clusters. This approach let us identify five clusters enriched with known pathogenic genes and with genes located in CNVs with different frequencies between African Americans and Caucasians. These clustering patterns predict two candidate causal genes located in four population-specific CNVs that play potential roles in health disparities', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/584/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Computer Science and Engineering, University of Tennessee at Chattanooga', u'Departement of Biology, Spelman College']]
[u'Oviposition interval and gonotrophic concordance in Southeast Asian anophelines', ['Jacques Derek D Charlwood', 'Nep Phala', 'Siv Sovannaroth', 'John Morgan', 'Janet Hemingway', 'Nakul Chitnis', 'Olivier JT Briet'], u'2014-11-03', u'Mosquito survival and oviposition interval are important disease vector\u2019s determinants that may vary within species depending on the environment. The length of the oviposition interval may be estimated by the proportion of mosquito ovaries with sacs. Fourteen species of Anopheles were collected from four locations in Cambodia and 1965 specimens were dissected. Both the number and predominant species collected varied according to location and trapping method. Five species were collected in sufficient numbers to allow comparisons between locations Sac rates differed between species but not within species between locations. Anopheles minimus had a higher sac rate in weeks leading up to a full moon. The more preserved environments supported more diverse anopheline fauna than the degraded environments. Despite the fact that many of the species occurred at very low densities there was no evidence of gonotrophic dissociation in any of the species. The principal malaria vector, An. dirus, was only common in one location where it was collected in miniature light-traps. It is suggested that a nationwide survey using such traps may help in determining patterns of malaria transmission in Cambodia.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/582/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Parasitology'], [u'Medical Entomology, Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine', u'Centro Nacional de Malaria', u'National Center for Parasitology, Entomology and Malaria Control, Centro Nacional de Malaria', u'University of Basel,', u'Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute', u'University of Basel']]
[u'Fault bars and stable isotope signatures reveal effects of severe weather stressors on fledgling sparrows', ['Jeremy D Ross', 'Jeffrey F Kelly', 'Eli S Bridge', 'Michael H Engel', 'Dan L Reinking', 'W Alice Boyle'], u'2014-11-03', u'In August 2013, we observed a high incidence (44%) of synchronous fault bars across the rectrices of juvenile Grasshopper Sparrows (Ammodrammus savannarum) captured near El Reno, Oklahoma. Earlier that year, on May 31, the site was struck by a severe storm which rained hailstones exceeding 5.5 cm diameter and spawned an historic 4.2 km-wide tornado <8 km to the south of the site. An assessment of Grasshopper Sparrow nesting phenology indicated that a large number of nestlings were likely growing tail feathers when the storm hit. To assess the nature of the fault bars, we measured \u03b415N and \u03b413C stable isotope ratios within four 0.25-0.40 mg feather sections taken from the distal end of a tail feather from 18 juveniles captured at the site in August. The fault bar, if present, was contained within only one section. Fault bars were located at various positions on the distal half of feathers, and fault bar width significantly increased as a function of distance from the tip (i.e., age at formation). After correcting for consistent, natural \u03b415N variation across sections, we found that feather sections containing or located immediately proximal to fault bars showed significantly higher \u03b415N than sections from the same feathers located distal to or further from the fault bar region. We also observed significantly higher \u03b413C but lower \u03b415N in the feathers of juveniles with fault bars compared to normal appearing juveniles. Our findings support the hypothesis that an abrupt environmental stressor affected Grasshopper Sparrow chicks of various ages, and caused short term catabolism of muscle tissue that resulted in a spike in \u03b415N deposited into growing feathers. Furthermore, higher \u03b415N and lower \u03b413C among juveniles lacking fault bars suggested a seasonal change in diet consistent with these individuals hatching after the May 31 storm. Severe weather events may represent major stressors to ground-nesting birds, and we recommend exploiting opportunities to study the effects of severe weather as part of ongoing research efforts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/581/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Oklahoma Biological Survey, University of Oklahoma', u'Department of Biology, University of Oklahoma', u'ConocoPhillips School of Geology and Geophysics, University of Oklahoma', u'Sutton Avian Research Center, Oklahoma Biological Survey, University of Oklahoma', u'Division of Biology, Kansas State University']]
[u'Understanding the social determinants of TB and HIV in South Asia', ['Bishwajit Ghose', 'Cheng Zhaohui', 'He Zhifei'], u'2014-11-02', u'South Asian population suffer a particularly wide range of infectious diseases among which TB and HIV appear to produce most profound influence across various dimensions of social life, healthcare and the economy. Although the countries in this region have a relatively lower prevalence of HIV/AIDS compared to other developing regions until now, the future looks rather bleak in terms of preparedness for emerging healthcare realities. Tuberculosis on the other hand, has always been a major public health problem plaguing the healthcare system and the economy for decades. Moreover, the emergence of the drug resistant (MDR-TB & XDR-TB) strains are making the existing intervention and prevention strategies less effective and posing ever-growing threats to the underdeveloped healthcare infrastructure. Understanding the underlying social-determinants of these diseases can prove crucial to design more comprehensive intervention approaches. This article aims to clarify why the healthcare system in South Asia needs to adopt a social-determinants-of-health (SDOH) approach as a long-term strategy for more efficient prevention and control of TB and HIV infection.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/579/', ['Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Social Medicine and Health Management, Tongji Medical College', u'School of Social Medicine and Health Management, Tongji Medical College']]
[u'HIV disclosure perspectives from HIV-positive parents, HIV-positive children, and HIV-negative children', ['Grace Gachanja', 'Gary J Burkholder', 'Aimee Ferraro'], u'2014-11-02', u'The aim of this research brief is to describe a study that examined the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their biological HIV-positive and negative children before, during, and after the HIV disclosure process in Kenya. This is the first study from Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) that provides perspectives on HIV disclosure of a parent\u2019s and a child\u2019s illness from the viewpoints of HIV-positive parents, HIV-positive children, and HIV-negative children. Prior studies in SSA have mostly centered on disclosure to HIV-positive children (of their own illnesses) and others have reported on parents disclosing their illnesses to their children. Key Aspects of HIV Disclosure to Children: 1. Disclosure should be performed as a process. 2. It is a parent\u2019s decision on when to disclose but also a child\u2019s right to be told about his/her own, a parent\u2019s, and other family member\u2019s illnesses and deaths. 3. Healthcare professionals should help parents prepare for and disclose family member\u2019s illnesses and prior deaths to their children. 4. Disclosure should preferably be performed when both the parent and child are in good health. 5. Disclosure should be performed when a child shows understanding of the illness and/or maturity. 6. Disclosure planning should include a determination of who is the most suitable person to disclose to a child. 7. Disclosure should be postponed until animportant life event (e.g., taking a national school examination) has occurred. The original research article is located at: https://peerj.com/articles/486.pdf', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/578/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'College of Health Sciences, Walden University', u'College of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Walden University', u'Laureate Education, Inc.']]
[u'HIV-positive parents\u2019 accounts on disclosure preparation activities for a parent\u2019s and/or a child\u2019s illness in Kenya', ['Grace Gachanja', 'Gary J Burkholder', 'Aimee Ferraro'], u'2014-11-02', u'The aim of this research brief is to describe a study that examined how HIV-positive parents prepared themselves and their children for HIV disclosure in Kenya. This is the first study from Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) that provides comprehensive data on how HIV-positive parents prepare themselves and their HIV-positive and negative children for disclosure of a parent\u2019s and/or a child\u2019s illness. Prior studies in SSA have provided limited details about the activities performed by parents to prepare for disclosure of a parent\u2019s or a child\u2019s illness. Key aspects of preparing for disclosure to children: 1. Most parents take years to prepare for disclosure, proceeding when they judge themselves ready to impart the news and their children receptive to receive the news. 2. Parents\u2019 preparation activities for disclosure proceed through four major phases which include secrecy, exploration, readiness, and finally full disclosure of illness. 3. In the secrecy phase parents do not disclose; in the exploration phase they plan how they will disclose; in the readiness phase they seek activities that will help them to fully disclose; finally when ready they fully disclose to their children based on birth order. 4. Parents who have many children remain simultaneously within the different preparation phases as they move their children from a state where none are disclosed to, to a state when all of them have been fully disclosed to. The original research article is located at: http://scholarworks.waldenu.edu/jsbhs/vol8/iss1/1/', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/577/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'College of Health Sciences, Walden University', u'College of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Walden University', u'Institutional Quality and Integrity, Laureate Education, Inc.']]
[u'Development of new psychometric instruments to measure appearance distress during adolescence: the Adolescent Appearance Distress Scales', ['Timothy P Moss', 'Chantelle Bailey', 'Catrin Griffiths', 'Victoria Lawson', 'Heidi Williamson'], u'2014-11-01', u'Measures of adolescent appearance distress have focused on weight and body shape, excluding other aspects of appearance. The absence of a psychometrically sound, general measure of appearance distress has limited evaluation of interventions and curtailed investigation of psychological processes in adolescent appearance adjustment. This paper describes the development of scales assessing adolescent appearance distress to address this dearth of appropriate measures, validated through cross-sectional design involving 617 adolescents. Two scales were developed, comprising 13 items for younger adolescents and 17 items for older adolescents. Two similar factors were generated for each scale, \u201cfear of negative appearance evaluation\u201d and \u201csalience and investment in appearance.\u201d A third factor was identified for older adolescents, \u201csocial appearance comparison.\u201d Sound psychometric properties were demonstrated.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/575/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'Centre for Appearance Research, University of the West of England (Bristol)', u'Department of Psychology, Southwark Psychological Therapies Service, South London and Maudsley NHS Foundation Trust']]
[u'Cigarette smoking as a risk factor for acute respiratory distress syndrome: a systematic review and meta-analysis', ['Zhongheng Zhang'], u'2014-10-31', u'Background and objectives: Numerous experimental studies have linked cigarette smoking to lung injury. However, it is still debated on whether cigarette smoking is a risk factor for the development of acute lung injury/acute respiratory distress syndrome (ALI/ARDS). The study aimed to solve the controversy by performing systematic review and meta-analysis. Methods: Electronic databases including Pubmed, Google scholar, Embase and Scopus were searched from inception to April 2014. Studies investigated the association of cigarette smoking and ALI/ARDS were included. Non-randomized studies were assessment for their methodological quality by using Newcastle-Ottawa scale. Meta-analysis was performed by using random effects model and subgroup analyses were performed to address the clinical heterogeneity. Publication bias was assessed by using Egger\u2019s test. Main result: Of the 17 studies included in our analysis, 15 provided data on effect size and were meta-analyzable. Component studies involved heterogeneous populations including major surgery, trauma, septic shock, general population, influenza A infection and transfusion. The combined results showed that cigarette smoking was not a risk factor for the development of ALI/ARDS (OR: 1.00, 95% CI: 0.99-1.01). In subgroup analysis, the same result was obtained in general population (OR: 2.03, 95% CI: 0.06-4.01), patients with major surgery or trauma (OR: 1.20, 95% CI: 0.48-1.93) and patients with other risks of ALI/ARDS (OR: 1.00, 95% CI: 0.99-1.01). Conclusion: Our study demonstrates that cigarette smoking is not associated with increased risk of ALI/ARDS in critically ill patients. However, the relationship in general population is still controversial and requires further confirmation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/574/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Emergency and Critical Care', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Respiratory Medicine'], [u'Department of Critical Care Medicine, Jinhua Municipal Central Hospital']]
[u'Subject-specific body segment parameter estimation using 3D photogrammetry with multiple cameras', ['Kathrin E Peyer', 'Mark Morris', 'William I Sellers'], u'2014-10-31', u'Inertial properties of body segments, such as mass, centre of mass or moments of inertia, are important parameters when studying movements of the human body. These quantities are, however, not directly measurable. Current approaches include using regression models which have limited accuracy; geometric models with lengthy measuring procedures; or acquiring and post-processing MRI scans of participants. We propose a geometric methodology based on 3D photogrammetry using multiple cameras to provide subject-specific body segment parameters while minimizing the interaction time with the participants. A low-cost body scanner was built using multiple cameras and 3D point cloud data generated using structure from motion photogrammetric reconstruction algorithms. The point cloud was manually separated into body segments and convex hulling applied to each segment to produce the required geometric outlines. The accuracy of the method can be adjusted by choosing the number of subdivisions of the body segments. The body segment parameters of six participants (four male and two female) are presented using the proposed method. The multi-camera photogrammetric approach is expected to be particularly suited for studies including populations for which regression models are not available in literature and where other geometric techniques or MRI scanning are not applicable due to time or ethical constraints.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/573/', ['Anthropology', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester']]
[u'First photographic records of the giant manta ray Manta birostris off eastern Australia', ['Lydie I. E. Couturier', 'Fabrice R. A. Jaine', 'Tom Kashiwagi'], u'2014-10-31', u'We present the first photographic evidence of the presence of the giant manta ray Manta birostris in east Australian waters. Two individuals were photographed off Montague Island in New South Wales and off the north east coast of Tasmania, during summer 2012 and 2014, respectively. These sightings confirm previous unverified reports on the species occurrence and extending the range of M. birostris to 40\xbaS. We discuss these findings in the context of the species\u2019 migratory ecology, the regional oceanography along the south eastern Australian coastline and local productivity events.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/572/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'School of Biomedical Sciences, University of Queensland', u'Climate Adaptation Flagship, CSIRO Marine and Atmospheric Research', u'Marine Megafauna Foundation, Manta Ray & Whale Shark Research Centre', u'School of Geography, Planning and Environmental Management, The University of Queensland']]
[u'Comprehensive, structurally-curated alignment and phylogeny of vertebrate biogenic amine receptors', ['Stephanie Spielman', 'Keerthana Kumar', 'Claus O. Wilke'], u'2014-10-31', u'Biogenic amine receptors play critical roles in regulating behavior and physiology, particularly within the central nervous system, in both vertebrates and invertebrates. These receptors belong to the G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR) family and interact with endogenous bioamine ligands, such as dopamine, serotonin, and epinephrine, and they are targeted by a wide array of pharmaceuticals. Despite these receptors\u2019 clear clinical and biological importance, their evolutionary history remains poorly characterized. In particular, the relationships among biogenic amine receptors and any specific evolutionary constraints acting within distinct receptor subtypes are largely unknown. To advance and facilitate studies in this receptor family, we have constructed a comprehensive, high-quality, structurally-curated sequence alignment of vertebrate biogenic amine receptors. We demonstrate that aligning GPCR sequences without considering structure produces an alignment with substantial error, whereas a structurally-aware approach greatly improves alignment accuracy. Moreover, we show that phylogenetic inference with our structurally-curated alignment offers dramatic improvements over a structurally-naive alignment. Using the structural alignment and its corresponding phylogeny, we deduce novel biogenic amine receptor relationships and uncover previously unrecognized lineage-specific receptor clades. Moreover, we find that roughly 1% of the 3039 sequences in our final alignment are either misannotated or unclassified, and we propose updated classifications for these receptors. We release our comprehensive alignment and its corresponding phylogeny as a resource for future research into the evolution and diversification of biogenic amine receptors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/571/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology and Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Texas at Austin', u'Institute of Cellular and Molecular Biology, The University of Texas at Austin', u'Center for Computational Biology and Bioinformatics, The University of Texas at Austin']]
[u'Suburban frog ponds: mapping local land cover yields different estimates of landscape composition than the National Land Cover Database', ['Max Lambert'], u'2014-10-31', u'Suburban neighborhoods are rapidly spreading globally. As such, there is an increasing need to study the environmental and ecological effects of suburbanization. At large spatial extents, from county-level to global, remote sensing-derived land cover data, such as the National Land Cover Dataset (NLCD), have yielded insight into patterns of urbanization and concomitant large-scale ecological patterns in response. However, the components of suburban land cover (houses, yards, etc.) are dispersed throughout the landscape at a finer scale than the relatively coarse grain size (30m pixels) of NLCD may be able to detect. Our understanding of ecological processes in heterogeneous landscapes is reliant upon the accuracy and resolution of our measurements as well as the scale at which we measure the landscape. Analyses of ecological processes along suburban gradients are restricted by the currently available data. As ecologists are becoming increasingly interested in describing phenomena at spatial extents as small as individual households, we need higher-resolution landscape measurements. Here, I describe a simple method of translating the components of suburban landscapes into finer-grain, local land cover (LLC) data in GIS. Using both LLC and NLCD, I compare the suburban matrix surrounding ponds occupied by two different frog species. I illustrate large discrepancies in Forest, Yard, and Developed land cover estimates between LLC and NLCD, leading to markedly different interpretations of suburban landscape composition. NLCD, relative to LLC, estimates lower proportions of forest cover and higher proportions of anthropogenic land covers in general. These two land cover datasets provide surprisingly different descriptions of the suburban landscapes, potentially affecting our understanding of how organisms respond to an increasingly suburban world. LLC provides a free and detailed fine-grain depiction of the components of suburban neighborhoods and will allow ecologists to better explore heterogeneous suburban landscapes at multiple spatial scales.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/570/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'School of Forestry and Environmental Studies, Yale University']]
[u'The season for peace: reconciliation in a despotic species (Lemur catta)', ['Elisabetta Palagi', 'Ivan Norscia'], u'2014-10-30', u'However despotic a social group may be, managing conflicts of interest is crucial to preserve group living benefits, mainly based on cooperation. In fact, in despotic groups post-conflict management via reconciliation (the first post-conflict reunion between former opponents) can occur, even if at variable levels. In the despotic Lemur catta reconciliation was reported in one out of four captive groups. We used this species as a model to understand what variables influence the occurrence of the reconciliation in despotic groups. We analyzed 2339 PC-MC collected on eight groups (five in the Berenty forest, Madagascar; three hosted at the Pistoia Zoo, Italy). Since Lemur catta is characterized by rigid female dominance but show female-female coalitionary support, we expected to find reconciliation in the wild, other than in captivity. Consistently, we found the phenomenon to be present in one captive group and two wild groups, thus providing the first evidence of the presence of reconciliation in wild Lemur catta. Being this species a seasonal breeder (with mating occurring once a year), we expected that the season more than other variables (wild/captivity setting, rank, or individual features) would influence reconciliation levels. Via GLMM we found that the season was indeed the only variable significantly explaining reconciliation rates, lowest during mating and highest during the pregnancy period. We posit that reconciliation can be present in despotic species but not when the advantages of intra-group cooperation are annihilated by competition, as it occurs in seasonal breeders when reproduction is at stake. By comparing our results with literature, we conclude that in despotic social groups in which coalitions are observed, the right question is not if but when reconciliation can be present.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/568/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Zoology'], [u'Natural History Museum, University of Pisa', u'Institute of Cognitive Sciences and Technologies, Unit of Cognitive Primatology & Primate Center, CNR']]
[u'Using empirical and simulated data to study the influence of environmental heterogeneity on fish species richness in two biogeographic provinces', ['Philippe Massicotte', 'Raphael Proulx', 'Gilbert Cabana', 'Marco Rodriguez'], u'2014-10-30', u'Loss of species richness in aquatic ecosystems is occurring rapidly and many factors, including habitat heterogeneity, have been suggested to affect the diversity of aquatic communities. We used fish community data (> 200 species) from extensive surveys conducted in two biogeographic provinces (extent > 1000 km) in North America to test the hypothesis that fish species richness is greater in more heterogeneous habitats (grain < 10 km2). Our tests are based on samples collected at nearly 800 stations over a period of five years. Using a set of environmental variables routinely measured by monitoring programs and a random placement model of community assembly, we demonstrate that fish species richness in coastal ecosystems is associated locally with the spatial heterogeneity of environmental variables but not with their magnitude. The observed effect of heterogeneity on species richness was substantially greater than that generated by simulations. Our modeling framework opens avenues for targeted conservation of habitat heterogeneity at broader temporal and spatial scales.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/567/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Centre de Recherche sur les Interactions Bassins Versants-\xc9cosyst\xe8mes aquatiques (RIVE), Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Trois-Rivi\xe8res']]
[u'Urinary nucleic acids can be concentrated, dried on membranes and stored at room temperature in vacuum bags', ['Fanshuang Zhang', 'Yuan Yuan', 'Jianqiang Wu', 'Youhe Gao'], u'2014-10-29', u'Urine accumulates traces of changes that occur in the body and can potentially serve as a better biomarker source. Urinary nucleic acids are a promising class of non-invasive disease biomarkers. However, long-term frozen human urine samples are not a good source for the extraction of nucleic acids. In this paper, we demonstrate that urinary nucleic acids can be concentrated, dried on membranes and stored in vacuum bags at room temperature for several months. The amount of total RNA on the membranes after storage at room temperature for three months was unchanged. The levels of miR-16 and miR-21 exhibited no significant differences (P = 0.564, 0.386). This simple and economical method makes the large-scale storage of clinical samples of urinary nucleic acids possible.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/566/', ['Biochemistry', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Pathophysiology, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences School of Basic Medicine Peking Union Medical Colleg', u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Beijing Normal University']]
[u'Artemisinin mimics calorie restriction to initiate antioxidative responses and compromise telomere shortening', ['Da-Ting Wang', 'Ming Wu', 'Si-ming Li', 'Qian Gao', 'Qing-Ping Zeng'], u'2014-10-29', u'Calorie restriction (CR) is known to extend lifespan among organisms with the putative mechanism underlying nitric oxide (NO)-enhanced mitochondrial biogenesis. However, whether NO maintains telomere intact that is implicated in life expectancy remains unknown. We report here the artemisinin derivative artesunate in a low concentration up-regulates mitochondrial SIRT3-SOD2 expression among global activation of antioxidative networks via the NO signaling cascade AMPK\u2192Akt\u2192eNOS\u2192SIRT1\u2192PGC-1\u03b1. While the NO donor sodium nitroprusside and the NO precursor L-arginine replicate the antioxidative responses, exogenous low-dose hydrogen peroxide also leads to attenuated oxidative stress. The tumor suppressor BRCA1 and other DNA repair partners are down-regulated after scavenging of reactive oxygen species. Upon treatment, telomere shortening is damped without telomerase up-regulation, highlighting telomere maintenance rather than telomere elongation. In conclusion, artesunate can mimic CR to activate antioxidative responses and alleviate telomere attrition via NO signaling, thereby maintaining the stability and integrity of chromosomes, which are the hallmarks of longevity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/565/', ['Biochemistry', 'Genomics', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Tropical Medicine Institute, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine', u'School of Life Science, Sun Yat-sen University', u'The Second Affiliated Hospital, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine']]
[u'Association between intrinsic disorder and serine/threonine phosphorylation in Mycobacterium tuberculosis', ['Gajinder P Singh'], u'2014-10-29', u'Serine/threonine phosphorylation is an important mechanism to regulate protein function. In eukaryotes phosphorylation occurs predominantly in intrinsically disordered regions of proteins. While serine/threonine phosphorylation and protein disorder are much less prevalent in prokaryotes, M. tuberculosis has both high serine/threonine phosphorylation and disorder. Here I show that, similar to eukaryotes, serine/threonine phosphorylation sites in M. tuberculosis are highly enriched in intrinsically disordered regions, indicating similarity in substrate recognition mechanism of eukaryotic and M. tuberculosis kinases. Serine/threonine phosphorylation has been linked to the pathogenicity and survival of M. tuberculosis, thus better understanding of how its kinases recognize their substrates could have important implications in understanding and controlling the biology of this deadly pathogen.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/564/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology'], [u'School of Biotechnology, KIIT University']]
[u'Definition of sampling units begets conclusions in ecology: the case of habitats for plant communities', ['Martin A Morsdorf', 'Virve T. Ravolainen', 'Leif Einar  Stvern', 'Nigel G. Yoccoz', 'Ingibjorg S. Jonsdottir', 'Kari Anne Brathen'], u'2014-10-28', u'In ecology, expert knowledge on habitat characteristics is often used to define sampling units such as study sites. Ecologists are especially prone to such approaches when prior sampling frames are not accessible. Here we ask to what extent can different approaches to the definition of sampling units influence the conclusions that are drawn from an ecological study? We do this by comparing a formal versus a subjective definition of sampling units within a study design which is based on well-articulated objectives and proper methodology. Both approaches are applied to tundra plant communities in mesic and snowbed habitats. For the formal approach, sampling units were first defined for each habitat in concave terrain of suitable slope using GIS. In the field, these units were only accepted as the targeted habitats if additional criteria for vegetation cover were fulfilled. For the subjective approach, sampling units were defined visually in the field, based on typical plant communities of mesic and snowbed habitats. For each approach, we collected information about plant community characteristics within a total of 11 mesic and seven snowbed units distributed between two herding districts of contrasting reindeer density. Results from the two approaches differed significantly in several plant community characteristics in both mesic and snowbed habitats. Furthermore, differences between the two approaches were not consistent because their magnitude and direction differed both between the two habitats and the two reindeer herding districts. Consequently, we could draw different conclusions on how plant diversity and relative abundance of functional groups are differentiated between the two habitats depending on the approach used. We therefore challenge ecologists to formalize the expert knowledge applied to define sampling units through a set of well-articulated rules, rather than applying it subjectively. We see this as instrumental for progress in ecology as only rules based on expert knowledge are transparent and lead to results reproducible by other ecologists.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/563/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Iceland', u'Department of Arctic and Marine Biology, The Arctic University of Norway', u'Department of Arctic Biology, University Centre in Svalbard, UNIS', u'Norwegian Polar Institute', u'Norwegian Institute for Forest and Landscape Research', u'Department of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Iceland']]
[u'Brainstem projections to molecular layer heterotopia of the cerebellar vermis: Evidence from the Allen Mouse Brain Connectivity Database', ['Raddy L Ramos'], u'2014-10-28', u'Molecular layer heterotopia of the cerebellar vermis are a characteristic feature of C57BL/6 mice. Heterotopia consist of neurons and glia in the molecular layers between folia VIII and IX in regions lacking pia. Previously, we described the cellular composition of heterotopia which includes granule cells, Purkinje cells, Golgi cells, etc. However, the axonal constituents and afferent connections of these malformations remain poorly understood. In the present report axonal projections to heterotopia are documented from diverse brainstem nuclei such as the spinal vestibular nucleus, dorsal cochlear nucleus, and nucleus prepositus. These findings are relevant toward understanding the mechanisms of normal and abnormal cerebellar development and the establishment of cerebellar circuits.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/562/', ['Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, NY Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine']]
[u'Towards an easy generation of scientific three-dimensional models for embedding into 3D PDF (Portable Document Format) files', ['Axel Newe'], u'2014-10-27', u'The Portable Document Format (PDF) allows for embedding three-dimensional (3D) models and is therefore particularly suitable to exchange and present respective data, especially as regards scholarly articles. The generation of the necessary model data, however, is still challenging, especially for inexperienced users. This prevents an unrestrained proliferation of 3D PDF usage in scientific communication. This article introduces a new module for the biomedical image processing framework MeVisLab. It enables even novice users to generate the model data files without requiring programming skills and without the need for an intensive training by simply using it as a conversion tool. Advanced users can benefit from the full capability of MeVisLab to generate and export the model data as part of an overall processing chain. Although MeVisLab is primarily designed for handling biomedical image data, the new module is not restricted to this domain. It can be used for all scientific disciplines.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/560/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Translational Medicine', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Computational Science'], [u'Chair of Medical Informatics, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nuremberg']]
[u'Profile analysis of hepatic porcine and murine brain tissue slices obtained with a vibratome', ['Giorgio Mattei', 'Irene Cristiani', 'Chiara Magliaro', 'Arti Ahluwalia'], u'2014-10-27', u'This study is aimed at characterizing soft tissue slices using a vibratome. In particular, the effect of two sectioning parameters (i.e. step size and sectioning speed) on resultant slice thickness was investigated for fresh porcine liver as well as for paraformaldehyde-fixed (PFA-fixed) and fresh murine brain. A simple framework for embedding, sectioning and imaging the slices was established to derive their thickness, which was evaluated through a purposely developed graphical user interface. Sectioning speed and step size had little effect on the thickness of fresh liver slices. Conversely, the thickness of PFA-fixed murine brain slices was found to be dependent on the step size, but not on the sectioning speed. In view of these results, fresh brain tissue was sliced varying the step size only, which was found to have a significant effect on resultant slice thickness. Although precision-cut slices (i.e. with regular thickness) were obtained for all the tissues, slice accuracy (defined as the match between the nominal step size chosen and the actual slice thickness obtained) was found to increase with tissue stiffness from fresh liver to PFA-fixed brain. This quantitative investigation can be very helpful for establishing the most suitable slicing setup for a given tissue.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/561/', ['Bioengineering', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Histology'], [u"Research Center ''E. Piaggio'', University of Pisa", u'Research Center "E. Piaggio", University of Pisa', u'Institute of Clinical Physiology, National Research Council']]
[u'Wireless PC-based phonocardiograph and diagnosis', ['Amy Dao'], u'2014-10-26', u"Auscultation is used to evaluate heart health and can indicate when it's needed to refer a patient to a cardiologist. Advanced PCG signal processing algorithms are developed to assist the physician in the initial diagnosis but they are primarily designed and demonstrated with research quality equipment. Therefore there is a need to demonstrate the applicability of those techniques with consumer grade instrument. Furthermore, routine monitoring would benefit from a wireless PCG sensor that allows continuous monitoring of cardiac signals of patients in physical activity, e.g., treadmill or weight exercise. In this work, a low-cost portable and wireless healthcare monitoring system based on phonocardiograph signal is implemented to validate and evaluate the most advanced algorithms. Off-the-shelf electronics and a notebook PC are used with MATLAB codes to record and analyze PCG signals which are collected with a notebook computer in tethered and wireless mode. High valued diagnostics based on the S1 and S2 signals and MATLAB codes are demonstrated. While the prototype is based on MATLAB, the later is not an absolute requirement.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/559/', ['Bioengineering', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of New Mexico']]
[u'Systematic review of the statistical scope used in studies based on skeletal muscle autophagy and exercise', ['Diane Brownlee'], u'2014-10-23', u'Skeletal muscle reaction to exercise is an essential are of research due to its ongoing prevalence in disease research and general health. It is well documented that under exercise conditions, biogenesis and autophagy increase. One main component of this pathway are lysosomes, the essential cellular clearance machine. Statistical analyses used to analyze these data have been sustained over the years. The objective of this systematic review is to compare and contrast the different methods used for analyzing data in molecular exercise physiology. Upon investigating the research papers the majority of the papers used either a t-test or an ANOVA as their primary statistical analyses, used 41% and 64% of the time, respectively. All other statistical tests were used a maximum of 9% of the time. Another trend that was evident was the increased utilization of post hoc tests in the more recent papers compared to earlier papers. This could provide interesting evidence into the credibility of the results reported and provide more insight into the research in molecular exercise physiology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/556/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biology, York University']]
[u'A systematic review of the statistical scope of restoration ecology of invaded grassland ecosystems', ['Amanda R Liczner'], u'2014-10-24', u'Restoration ecology is a rapidly growing field of research. The statistical analyses and experimental designs used in this field have likely also expanded. In this review, the statistical scope of the restoration ecology of invaded grasslands will be investigated. A systematic review was conducted on 103 articles to examine the types of statistical tests used and how they changed over time, if assumptions are tested, and how the number of statistical tests and the experimental design influence both the citation rate of articles and the impact factor of journals where these articles are published. ANOVAs have consistently been the dominant test. Statistical test diversity has increased since the year 2000. Most articles did test the assumptions of statistical analyses. The number of tests, and sample size of experiments are both positively correlated with the average citation rate of articles and the impact factor of the journal while the number of factors was negatively correlated. GLMs are recommended as a statistical test to be used more frequently in the future over ANOVAs. There is room for improvement in terms of reporting statistics accurately, including testing assumptions. When possible, sample sizes should be increased to both increase the quality of data, and the citation rate and the journal impact where articles are published. When possible and appropriate, sample sizes and the number of statistical tests should be increased. Adding factors in experimental designs should only be done so without compromising sample size as it has been shown to hinder the citation rate and journal impact.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/558/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biology, York University']]
[u'Using citizen-science data to identify local hotspots of species occurrence', ['Eric J. Ward', 'Kristin N Marshall', 'Todd Hass', 'Scott F. Pearson', 'Gerald Joyce', 'Nathalie J. Hamel', 'Adam Sedgley', 'Toby Ross', 'Peter J. Hodum', 'Rob Faucett'], u'2014-10-24', u'Seabirds have been identified and used as indicators of ecosystem processes such as climate change, and anthropogenic activity in nearshore ecosystems around the globe. Temporal and spatial trends have been documented at large spatial scales, but few studies have examined fine scale spatial patterns, by species or functional group, because . In this paper, we apply spatial occupancy models to assess the spatial patchiness and interannual trends of 18 seabird species in the Puget Sound region (Washington state, USA). Our dataset, the Puget Sound Seabird Survey, is unique in that represents a seven year study, collected in winter months (October \u2013 April), and is collected at an extremely fine spatial scale (62 sites in the current analysis). Despite historic declines of seabirds in the region over the last 50 years, results from our study are optimistic, suggesting increases in probabilities of occurrence for 14 of the 18 species included. We found support for declines in occurrence for white-winged scoters, brants, and 2 species of grebes. The declines of Western grebes in particular are troubling, but in agreement with other recent studies that have shown support for a range shift south in recent years, to the California Current.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/557/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Conservation Biology Division, Northwest Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration', u'Burke Museum of Natural History and Culture, University of Washington', u'School of Marine and Environmental Affairs, University of Washington', u'Wildlife Science Division, Washington Department of Fish and Wildlife', u'Moon Joyce Resources', u'Puget Sound Partnership', u'Seattle Audubon Society', u'Biology Department, University of Puget Sound']]
[u'Diversity of gastropods in Turnbull National Wildlife Refuge, WA and the regional spread of the invasive European ear snail (Radix auricularia)', ['Jake Ponce', 'Christina Torrieri', 'Michele Larson'], u'2014-10-23', u'Establishing base-line knowledge of native snails in an area and their relative abundance is important in understanding the role of snails in their environment and the possible use of snails as a bioindicator. This information can also be used to determine how an invasive species is affecting the native populations over time. Six genera of gastropods were found in the wetland ponds of Turnbull National Wildlife Refuge (TNWR) from April to June 2012, including the invasive European ear snail (Radix auricularia) which was found in four lakes it was not previously known to inhabit. A dominant snail genus was found for each lake, with Middle Pines Lake being dominated by Radix auricularia. Conductivity was the only abiotic factor studied that positively correlated with genera richness (p = 0.035).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/555/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Biology Department, Eastern Washington University']]
[u'A systematic review of the use of statistics in studies of restoration ecology of arid areas', ['Taylor Noble'], u'2014-10-21', u'Restoration ecology is the study of restoration or restoration practices in degraded areas. It is of particular importance in arid environments due to the heavy impact humans have had in these areas. Some studies of restoration may require different statistics due to the unique challenges faced when examining degraded areas. A systematic review was conducted to assess the use of statistics in the field. It was determined that the field and influence of restoration ecology had increased dramatically since its development. Statistics are widely used in the study of restoration of arid areas. Major tests are similar to those found in other ecological studies such as ANOVAs and linear regressions. There were a few less common tests used in some of the studies. These include tests such as the Mantel test which may be useful to restoration ecology and should be explored further. Finally it was determined that the description of how statistics were used in the study was particularly important. The description should be detailed to help other researchers understand the findings of the paper. This will help to advance the field and the restoration of arid environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/551/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biology, York University']]
[u'A population study of the Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus, at Point Judith Pond, RI', ['Nicholas J Jouett', 'Cory W Child'], u'2014-10-21', u'The Asian shore crab, Hemigrapsus sanguineus (De Haan), has recently invaded the Atlantic coast of the United States. Its large populations and continued fecundity are indicative of its successful establishment. Competitive interaction with other coastal crab species has been a subject of many studies. For example, in ex situ experiments, H. sanguineus has been shown to be superior to a long-established invader: the green crab, Carcinus maenas. Because H. sanguineus has been found in such great density on some shorelines, it has been postulated that it poses an ecological threat due to its potential to disrupt native and established species. However, many investigators have noted the invasive crab\u2019s limiting habitat requirement for complex, rocky shorelines. After observation of Point Judith Pond, RI, we assessed whether there were enough rocky areas to support significant populations of H. sanguineus that might be disruptive to C. maenas. Using a photo-quadrat system alongside software analysis, transects were laid across areas of interest. H. sanguineus were collected and counted in each quadrat, allowing habitat metrics obtained from the photographs, such as rock size and cover, to be correlated with the density of crabs, their size, and sex. These data, paired with the observation that Point Judith Pond has ample habitat for C. maenas to be displaced to, led us to conclude that the H. sanguineus population in Point Judith Pond, RI, is likely not capable of causing severe disruption of the native C. maenas population as it currently stands, and that this trend may extend to other estuarine systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/546/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'College of Environmental and Life Sciences, University of Rhode Island', u'Marine Science program, Eckerd College']]
[u'Potential parasite transmission in multi-host networks based on parasite sharing', ['Shai Pilosof', 'Serge Morand', 'Boris R Krasnov', 'Charles L Nunn'], u'2014-10-21', u'Epidemiological networks are commonly used to explore dynamics of parasite transmission among individuals in a population of a given host species. However, many parasites infect multiple host species, and thus multi-host networks may offer a better framework for investigating parasite dynamics. We investigated the factors that influence parasite sharing \u2013 and thus potential transmission pathways \u2013 among rodent hosts in Southeast Asia. We focused on differences between networks of a single host species and networks that involve multiple host species. In host-parasite networks, modularity (the extent to which the network is divided to subgroups composed of individuals that interact more among themselves than with individuals outside the subgroup) was higher in the multi-species than in the single-species networks. This suggests that phylogeny affects patterns of parasite sharing, which was confirmed in analyses showing that it predicted affiliation of individuals to modules. We then constructed \u201cpotential transmission networks\u201d based on the host-parasite networks, in which edges depict the number of parasites shared between a pair of individuals. The centrality of individuals in these networks differed between multi- and single-species networks, with species identity and individual characteristics influencing their position in the networks. Simulations further revealed that parasite dynamics differed between multi- and single-species networks. We conclude that multi-host networks based on parasite sharing can provide new insights into the potential for transmission among hosts in an ecological community. In addition, the factors that determine the nature of parasite sharing (i.e. structure of the host-parasite network) may impact transmission patterns.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/307/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Epidemiology'], [u'Mitrani Department of Desert Ecology, Jacob Blaustein Institutes for Desert Research, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev', u"Institut des Sciences de l'\xc9volution, Universit\xe9 Montpellier 2", u'Unit\xe9 de Recherche Animal et Gestion Int\xe9gr\xe9e des Risques, Centre de Coop\xe9ration Internationale en Recherche Agronomique pour le D\xe9veloppement', u"Centre d'Infectiologie Christophe M\xe9rieux du Laos (CICML)", u'Department of Evolutionary Anthropology, Duke University', u'Duke Global Health Institute, Duke University']]
[u'A transgenic mouse model ubiquitously overexpressing Dnmt1s mRNA lacks increased protein levels', ['Christian Grosser', 'Lothar Vassen', 'Bernhard Horsthemke', 'Nicholas Wagner'], u'2014-10-21', u'Several types of cancer are characterized by global hypomethylation accompanied by regional hypermethylation and overexpression of DNA methyltransferase (cytosine-5) 1 (Dnmt1). In addition to the established role of Dnmt1 as maintenance methyltransferase, it has been suggested that Dnmt1 might also methylate certain target sites de novo. We created a transgenic mouse model to investigate whether the overexpression of the somatic form of Dnmt1, Dnmt1s, is sufficient to cause erroneous methylation and disease. Because ubiquitous Dnmt1 overexpression has been reported to be embryonic lethal, we designed a CAG promoter-driven Cre-loxP conditional transgene containing a floxed EGFP sequence followed by the Dnmt1s coding sequence. The EGFP sequence is excised and transgenic Dnmt1s expression is activated at specific time points or in specific tissues depending on the Cre deleter strain used for cross-ins. Pronucleus injections with the Dnmt1s transgene construct resulted in six founder lines as verified by PCR, Southern blot and EGFP fluorescence. We performed cross-ins with a CMV-Cre deleter strain to clarify if ubiquitous overexpression of Dnmt1s alone causes the previously observed embryonic lethality. Unexpectedly, these cross-ins yielded viable recombined offspring that ubiquitously overexpressed Dnmt1 mRNA at tissue-dependent levels of up to 229-fold. However, the recombined offspring did not significantly overexpress Dnmt1 protein and showed no apparent signs of disease or pathological phenotype. Here, we describe the establishment of our Dnmt1s-transgenic mouse model and propose possibilities for the absence of transgenic protein.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/550/', ['Genetics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Institute of Human Genetics, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen', u'Faculty of Medicine, University of Duisburg-Essen, Institute for Cell Biology']]
[u'The Tao of Open Science for Ecology', ['Stephanie E Hampton', 'Sean Anderson', 'Sarah C Bagby', 'Corinna Gries', 'Xueying Han', 'Edmund Hart', 'Matthew B. Jones', 'W. Christopher Lenhardt', 'Andrew MacDonald', 'William Michener', 'Joseph F Mudge', 'Afshin Pourmokhtarian', 'Mark Schildhauer', 'Kara H Woo', 'Naupaka Zimmerman'], u'2014-10-21', u'The field of ecology is poised to take advantage of emerging technologies that facilitate the gathering, analyzing, and sharing of data, methods, and results. The concept of transparency at all stages of the research process, coupled with free and open access to data, code, and papers, constitutes "open science." Despite the many benefits of an open approach to science, a number of barriers to entry exist that may prevent researchers from embracing openness in their own work. Here we describe several key shifts in mindset that underpin the transition to more open science. These shifts in mindset include thinking about data stewardship rather than data ownership, embracing transparency throughout the data life-cycle and project duration, and accepting critique in public. Though foreign and perhaps frightening at first, these changes in thinking stand to benefit the field of ecology by fostering collegiality and broadening access to data and findings. We present an overview of tools and best practices that can enable these shifts in mindset at each stage of the research process, including tools to support data management planning and reproducible analyses, strategies for soliciting constructive feedback throughout the research process, and methods of broadening access to final research products.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/549/', ['Ecology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Center for Environmental Research, Education and Outreach, Washington State University', u'Environmental Science and Resource Management Program & Pacific Institute for Restoration Ecology, California State University Channel Islands', u'Marine Science Institute and Department of Earth Science, University of California', u'Center for Limnology, University of Wisconsin', u'Center for Nanotechnology in Society, University of California', u'National Ecological Observatory Network', u'National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis, University of California', u'Renaissance Computing Institute, University of North Carolina', u'Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia', u'College of University Libraries and Learning Science, University of New Mexico', u'The Institute of Environmental and Human Health, Department of Environmental Toxicology, Texas Tech University', u'Department of Earth & Environment, Boston University', u'National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis, University of California Santa Barbara', u'School of Plant Sciences, University of Arizona']]
[u'A statistical assessment of population trends for data deficient Mexican amphibians', ['Esther Quintero', 'Anne E. Thessen', 'Paulina Arias-Caballero', 'Barbara Ayala-Orozco'], u'2014-10-20', u'Background: Mexico is the fourth richest country in amphibians and the second country with the highest quantity of threatened amphibian species, and this number could be higher as many species are too poorly known to be accurately assigned to a risk category. The absence of a risk status or an unknown population trend can slow or halt conservation action, so it is vital to develop tools that in the absence of specific demographic data can assess a species\u2019 risk of extinction, population trend, and to better understand which variables increase their vulnerability. Recent studies have demonstrated that the risk of species decline depends on extrinsic and intrinsic trait, thus including both of them for assessing extinction might render more accurate assessment of threat. Methods: In this study harvested data from the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL) and the published literature for Mexican amphibians and used these data to assess the population trend of some of the Mexican species that have been assigned to the Data Deficient category of the IUCN using Random Forests, a Machine Learning method that gives a prediction of complex processes and identifies the most important variables that account for the predictions. Results: Our results show that most data deficient Mexican amphibians have decreasing population trends. We found that Random Forests is a solid and accurate way to identify species with decreasing population trends when no demographic data is available. Moreover, we point the most important variables that make species more vulnerable for extinction. This exercise is a very valuable first step in assigning conservation priorities for poorly known species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/490/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Subcoordinaci\xf3n de Especies Prioritarias, Direcci\xf3n General de An\xe1lisis y Prioridades, Comisi\xf3n Nacional para el Conocimiento y Uso de la Biodiversidad', u'The Data Detektiv']]
[u'Distinct root-associated bacterial communities on three wild plant species growing in a common field', ['Kristin Aleklett', 'Jonathan W Leff', 'Noah Fierer', 'Miranda Hart'], u'2014-10-20', u'Plant roots are known to harbor large and diverse communities of bacteria. It has been suggested that plant identity can structure these root-associated communities, but few studies have specifically assessed how the composition of root microbiota varies within and between plant species growing under natural conditions. We sampled endophytic and epiphytic bacteria in root tissues from a population of a wild, clonal plant (Orange hawkweed \u2013 Pilosella aurantiaca) as well as two neighboring plant species (Oxeye daisy \u2013 Leucanthemum vulgare and Alsike clover \u2013 Trifolium hybridum) to determine if plant species hosted unique root microbiota. Our results show that plants of different species host distinct bacterial communities in their roots. In terms of community composition, Betaproteobacteria (especially the family Oxalobacteraceae) were found to dominate in the root microbiota of L. vulgare and T. hybridum samples, whereas the root microbiota of P. aurantiaca had a more heterogeneous distribution of bacterial abundances where gamma Proteobacteria and Acidobacteria occupied a larger portion of the community. Whether all plant species host their own distinct root microbiota and plants more closely related to each other share more similar bacterial communities still remains to be explored.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/548/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Department of Biology, University of British Columbia Okanagan', u'Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Sciences and the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado']]
[u'Three-dimensional anatomy of the knee joint of ostriches (Struthio camelus)', ['Kyle P Chadwick', 'Sophie Regnault', 'Vivian Allen', 'John R. Hutchinson'], u'2014-10-20', u'The three-dimensional anatomy of the ostrich (Struthio camelus) knee (femorotibial, femorofibular, and femoropatellar) joint has scarcely been studied, and could elucidate certain mechanobiological properties of sesamoid bones. The adult ostrich is unique in that it has double patellae, while another similar ratite bird, the emu, has none. Understanding why these patellae form and what purpose they may serve is dually important for future studies on ratites as well as understanding mechanobiological characteristics of sesamoid bone development. For this purpose, we present a three-dimensional anatomical study of the ostrich knee joint, detailing osteology, ligaments and menisci, and myology. We have identified seven muscles which connect to the two patellae and compare our findings to past descriptions. These descriptions can be used to further study the biomechanical loading and implications of the double patella in the ostrich.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/547/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Structure and Motion Laboratory, Royal Veterinary College']]
[u'Decussation as an axial twist: A Comment on Kinsbourne (2013)', ['Marc HE de Lussanet', 'Jan W.M. Osse'], u'2014-10-20', u'One of the great mysteries of the brain, which has puzzled all-time students of brain form and function is the contralateral organization of the forebrain, and the crossings of its major afferent and efferent connections. As a novel explanation, two recent studies have proposed that the rostral part of the head, including the forebrain, is rotated by 180 degrees with respect to the rest of the body (de Lussanet and Osse, 2012, Animal Biology 62, 193\u2013216; Kinsbourne, 2013, Neuropsychology 27, 511\u2013515). Kinsbourne proposes one 180-degree turn while we consider the 180 degrees being the result of two 90-degree turns in opposite directions. We discuss the similarities and differences between the two hypotheses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/432/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Psychology and Sports Science, University of M\xfcnster', u'Department of Experimental Zoology, Wageningen University']]
[u'Ancestry-informative markers for African Americans based on the Affymetrix Pan-African genotyping array', ['Xu Zhang', 'Wenbo Mu', 'Cong Liu', 'Wei Zhang'], u'2014-10-18', u'Genetic admixture has been utilized as a tool for identifying loci associated with complex traits and diseases in recently admixed populations such as African Americans. In particular, admixture mapping is an efficient approach to identifying genetic basis for those complex diseases with substantial racial or ethnic disparities. Though current advances in admixture mapping algorithms may utilize the entire panel of SNPs, providing ancestry-informative markers (AIMs) that can differentiate parental populations and estimate ancestry proportions in an admixed population may particularly benefit admixture mapping in studies of limited samples, help identify unsuitable individuals (e.g., through genotyping the most informative ancestry markers) before starting large genome-wide association studies (GWAS), or guide larger scale targeted deep re-sequencing for determining specific disease-causing variants. Defining panels of AIMs based on commercial, high-throughput genotyping platforms will facilitate the utilization of these platforms for simultaneous admixture mapping of complex traits and diseases, in addition to conventional GWAS. Here, we describe AIMs detected based on the Shannon Information Content (SIC) or Fst for African Americans with genome-wide coverage that were selected from ~2.3 million single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) covered by the Affymetrix Axiom Pan-African array, a newly developed genotyping platform optimized for individuals of African ancestry.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/545/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genetics'], [u'Department of Medicine, The University of Illinois', u'The Affiliated Hospital of Medical School, Ningbo University', u'Department of Pediatrics, The University of Illinois']]
[u'Estimation of predator-prey mass ratios using stable isotopes: sources of errors', ['Eric Hertz', 'James Robinson', 'Marc Trudel', 'Asit Mazumder', 'Julia K Baum'], u'2014-10-17', u'In aquatic systems, the ratio of predator mass to prey mass (PPMR) is an important constraint on food web structure, and has been correlated with environmental stability. One common approach of estimating PPMR uses nitrogen stable isotopes (\u03b415N) as an indicator of trophic position, under the assumption that the discrimination between diet and tissue is constant with increasing diet \u03b415N (an additive approach). However, recent studies have shown that this assumption may not be valid, and that there is a negative trend between the \u03b415N of the diet and the discrimination value (a scaled approach). We estimated PPMR for a simulated food web using the traditional additive approach and improved scaled approach, before testing our predictions with isotope samples from a North Sea food web. Our simulations show that the additive approach gives incorrect estimates of PPMR, and these biases are reflected in North Sea PPMR estimates. The extent of the bias is dependent on the baseline \u03b415N and trophic level sampled, with the greatest differences for samples with low baseline \u03b415N sampled at lower trophic levels. The scaled approach allows for the comparison of PPMR across varying \u03b415N baselines and trophic levels, and will refine estimates of PPMR.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/544/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Victoria', u'Pacific Biological Station, Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada']]
[u'Ethylene induced soil microbes to increase seed germination, reduce growth time, and improve crop yield in Pisum sativum L.', ['Guenevere Perry'], u'2014-10-16', u'The main scope of this project was to identify a novel induction method to improve the effectiveness of biological fertilizers for organic farmers. To eliminate additional variables the plants were not treated with chemical or biological pesticides. The biological fertilizer used in this study was induced with co-factors and ethylene under specific conditions. Ethylene induced the soil to release acetonitrile, a component of indole-3-acetonitrile a precursor to the plant hormone indole-3-acetic acid (IAA). It is known that plant growth promoting bacteria can produce IAA and directly/ indirectly modify plant development and growth.\nIn this preliminary study, the ethylene induced biological fertilizer (EIBF) improved germination rate, enhanced quality, reduced growth time, and improved crop yield of Pisum sativum L (green peas) with a single application. Many biological fertilizer require two to three applications a year to see improved growth.Green peas grown in ethylene induced soil improved pea quantity by 200% per plant compared to control samples. EIBF increased the crop yield by over 57%. The average biological fertilizer only improves crop by 20-30%. The peas harvested from the plants grown in EIBF were 4 times larger peas collected from plants grown in the control soil. The improvement and continued study of EBIF may have a global applications, impacting farming techniques in poor developing countries or organic farms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/543/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science', 'Soil Science'], [u'R&D, G&A Innovative Solutions, LLC']]
[u'On the intrinsic sterility of 3D printing', ['Russell Y Neches', 'Kaitlin J. Flynn', 'Luis Zaman', 'Emily Tung', 'Nicholas Pudlo'], u'2014-10-15', u'3D printers that build objects using extruded thermoplastic are quickly becoming common place tools in laboratories. We demonstrate that with appropriate handling, these devices are capable of producing sterile components from a non-sterile feedstock of thermoplastic without any treatment after fabrication. The fabrication process itself results in sterilization of the material. The resulting 3D printed components are suitable for a wide variety of applications, including experiments with bacteria and cell culture.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/542/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Genome Center, UC Davis', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Michigan Medical School', u'BEACON Center, Michigan State University', u'Department of Biology, University of Washington', u'Pivot BIo']]
[u'The story of invasive algae, arginine, and turtle tumors does not make sense', ['Thierry M Work', 'Mathias Ackermann', 'James W Casey', 'Milani Chaloupka', 'Lawrence Herbst', 'Jennifer M Lynch', 'Brian A Stacy'], u'2014-10-14', u'We are presenting a rebuttal letter to the following article that appeared recently on PeerJ: Van Houtan KS, Smith CM, Dailer ML, and Kawachi M. 2014. Eutrophication and the dietary promotion of sea turtle tumors. PeerJ 2:e602. This article is available at the following URL: https://peerj.com/articles/602/. We argue that the article lacks an inferential framework to answer the complex question regarding the drivers of the turtle tumor disease fibropapillomatosis in Hawaii. The article also contains procedural flaws and does not provide any compelling evidence of a link between algae, arginine, and turtle tumors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/539/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Virology'], [u'U.S. Geological Survey, National Wildlife Health Center, Honolulu Field Station', u'Institute of Virology, University of Zurich', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Cornell University', u'Ecological Modelling Services Pty Ltd, University of Queensland', u'Department of Pathology and Department of Microbiology & Immunology, Albert Einstein College of Medicine', u'National Institute of Standards and Technology, Hollings Marine Laboratory', u'National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Office of Protected Resources']]
[u'Prevalence of disordered eating attitudes in young adults', ['Dimitrios Vlachakis', 'Chrisanthy Vlachakis'], u'2014-10-14', u'Objective. The objective of this study was to assess the prevalence of disordered eating and the dietary patterns of young adult female students. Method. 226 young female first and second year students were randomly recruited. The EAT-26 questionnaire was used to measure disordered eating, and the State Trait Anxiety Inventory tool (STAI) to assess anxiety levels. Results. The prevalence of disordered eating (DE group) was quite high and matched previous reported percentages for this age population (18%). DE students showed significantly lower energy intake compared to control group (CON) (1471 \xb1 357 vs. 1690 \xb1 563, kcals). Conclusion. Young adult female students show increased tendency towards disordered or restricted eating behaviours. Preventive intervention concerning the negative behaviours may be beneficial for all college students more so to those suffering from anxiety.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/538/', ['Nutrition', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Biomedical Research Foundation, Academy of Athens', u'Harokopio University, Dietetics']]
[u'Piecing together the biogeographic history of Chenopodium vulvaria L. using botanical literature and collections', ['Quentin J Groom'], u'2014-10-13', u'This study demonstrates the value of legacy literature and historic collections as a source of data on environmental history. Chenopodium vulvaria L. has declined in Northern Europe and is of conservation concern in several countries, whereas in other countries it has naturalised and is considered an alien weed. It is hypothesised that much of its former distribution was the result of repeated introductions from its native range in southern Europe and that its decline in northern Europe is the result of habitat change and a reduction in number of propagules imported to the north. An historical analysis of its ecology and distribution was conducted by mining legacy literature and historic botanical collections. Text analysis of habitat descriptions written on specimens and published in botanical literature covering a period of more than 200 years indicate that the habitat and introduction pathways of C. vulvaria have changed with time. Using the naturalised alien range in a climate niche model it is possible to project the range in Europe. By comparing this predicted model with a similar model created from all observations it is clear that there is a large discrepancy between the realised and predicted distributions. It is concluded that if C. vulvaria was native to northern Europe, then it was only ever a rare species, however it was more common in the 18th and 19th centuries due to a combination of repeated introductions and the creation of suitable habitats by people.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/536/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Botanic Garden Meise']]
[u'A linear sigmoid colon passage method in colonoscopy', ['Satoshi Awazu', 'Risa Araki', 'Toshihiko Awazu'], u'2014-10-13', u'A previous study revealed loop formation of the colonoscope in the sigmoid colon in 79% of patients. Colonoscope looping in the sigmoid colon is considered to cause abdominal pain and intestinal perforation. We discovered a phenomenon whereby the rectosigmoid junction becomes linear when the patient is moved from a left lateral to left semiprone position and the colonoscope tip can be readily inserted into the sigmoid colon. Therefore, this phenomenon was applied to our conventional insertion method to determine whether the colonoscope looping rate in the sigmoid colon can be reduced. Thus our new insertion method could reduce the colonoscope looping rate in the sigmoid colon. Our new insertion method may allow safer colonoscope insertion than our conventional insertion method.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/535/', ['Gastroenterology and Hepatology'], [u'Department of Gastroenterology, Awazu Hospital', u'Department of Surgery, Awazu Hospital']]
[u'Effects of five southern California macroalgal diets on consumption, growth, and gonad weight, in the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus', ['Matthew C Foster', 'Jarrett E Byrnes', 'Daniel C Reed'], u'2014-10-12', u'Consumer growth and reproductive capacity are direct functions of diet. Strongylocentrotid sea urchins, the dominant herbivores in California kelp forests, strongly prefer giant kelp (Macrocystis pyrifera), but are highly catholic in their ability to consume other species. The biomass of Macrocystis fluctuates greatly in space and time and the extent to which urchins can use alternate species of algae or a mixed diet of multiple algal species to maintain fitness when giant kelp is unavailable is unknown. We experimentally examined the effects of single and mixed species diets on consumption, growth and gonad weight in the purple sea urchin Strongylocentrotus purpuratus. Urchins were fed single species diets consisting of one of four common species of macroalgae (the kelps Macrocystis pyrifera and Pterygophora californica, and the red algae Chondracanthus corymbiferus and Rhodymenia californica (hereafter referred to by genus) or a mixed diet containing all four species ad libitum over a 13-week period in a controlled laboratory setting. Urchins fed Chondracanthus, Macrocystis and a mixed diet showed the highest growth (in terms of test diameter, wet weight and jaw length) and gonad weight while urchins fed Pterygophora and Rhodymenia showed the lowest. Urchins consumed their preferred food, Macrocystis at the highest rate when offered a mixture, but consumed Chondracanthus or Macrocystis at similar rates when the two algae were offered alone. The differences in urchin feeding behavior and growth observed between these diet types suggest the relative availability of the algae tested here could affect urchin populations and their interactions with the algal assemblage. The fact that the performance of urchins fed Chondracanthus was similar or higher than those fed the preferred Macrocystis suggests purple sea urchins could sustain growth and reproduction during times of low Macrocystis abundance as is common following large wave events.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/533/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Marine Science Institute, University of California, Santa Barbara', u'Department of Biology, University of Massachusetts, Boston']]
[u'Ranking small molecules by how much they preferentially inhibit the growth of cancer cell lines with either BRAF or KRAS oncogene mutations', ['James Langham'], u'2014-10-10', u'We were interested in the question of whether it might be possible to use knowledge of cancer-related mutations in the cell lines of the NCI60 screening data set to identify small molecules that preferentially inhibit the growth of cell lines containing either BRAF or KRAS oncogene mutations. Our hypothesis was that this cell line mutation knowledge could help to identify small molecules that were more likely to preferentially inhibit growth of cell lines with a particular mutation. It seems that any such molecules might be further investigated to try to better understand the molecular mechanisms of growth inhibition.\nWe defined a quantity, \\(\\text{Diff}_{\\text{mut}}\\), that estimates how much more a given small molecule inhibits cell lines with a mutation of interest than cell lines without that mutation. We ranked the small molecules in descending order of \\(\\text{Diff}_{\\text{mut}}\\) and then tried to explain whether the ranking of the highest ranked molecules made sense in terms of independent facts about these molecules.\nThis method showed the BRAF inhibitor vemurafenib to be highly ranked in the BRAF ranking. The cytidine analog cytarabine was found to be highly ranked in the KRAS ranking. Other cytidine analogs were also found to be highly ranked with respect to KRAS.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/532/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'SciSolve Software']]
[u'Missing checkerboards: an absence of competitive signal in Alnus-associated ectomycorrhizal fungal communities', ['Peter Kennedy', 'Nhu H. Nguyen', 'Hannah Cohen', 'Kabir G Peay'], u'2014-10-10', u'A number of recent studies suggest that interspecific competition plays a key role in determining the structure of ectomycorrhizal (ECM) fungal communities. Despite this growing consensus, there has been limited study of ECM fungal community dynamics in abiotically stressful environments, which are often dominated by positive rather than antagonistic interactions. In this study, we examined the ECM fungal communities associated with the host genus Alnus, which live in soils high in both nitrate and acidity. The nature of ECM fungal species interactions (i.e. antagonistic, neutral, or positive) was assessed using taxon co-occurrence and sequence abundance correlational analyses. ECM fungal communities were sampled from root tips and mesh in-growth bags in three monodominant A. rubra plots and identified using Illumina-based amplification of the ITS1 gene region. We found a total of 183 ECM fungal taxa present across the plots; 16 of which were closely related to known Alnus-associated ECM fungi. Contrary to previous studies of ECM fungal communities, taxon co-occurrence analyses on both the total and Alnus-associated ECM datasets indicated that the ECM fungal communities in this system were not structured by interspecific competition. Instead the co-occurrence patterns were consistent with either random assembly or significant positive interactions. Pair-wise correlational analyses were also more consistent with neutral or positive interactions. Taken together, our results suggest that interspecific competition does not appear to determine the structure of all ECM fungal communities and that abiotic conditions may be important in determining the specific type of interaction occurring among ECM fungi.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/531/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Mycology'], [u'Plant Biology, University of Minnesota', u'Biology, Lewis & Clark College', u'Biology, Stanford University']]
[u'The association between shame and substance misuse in young people: A review of the literature', ['Masuma Rahim', 'Robert Patton'], u'2014-10-10', u'BACKGROUND: Shame has been associated with a range of maladaptive behaviours, including substance abuse. Young people may be particularly vulnerable to heightened shame sensitivity, and substance abuse is a significant problem amongst UK adolescents. Although there appears to be a relationship between shame and substance abuse, the direction of the relationship remains unclear. AIM: We reviewed the literature relating to shame and substance abuse amongst young people. METHOD: Five electronic databases were searched for articles containing terms related to \u2018adolescence\u2019, \u2018shame\u2019 and \u2018substance abuse\u2019. Of the two hundred and twelve articles identified in the first sweep, six were included in the final analyses. RESULTS: Sexual abuse is indicated as a predictor of shame-proneness. Substance abuse may be a mechanism by which individuals cope with negative feelings. In general, there is a lack of literature investigating the shame-substance abuse relationship among adolescents. The available literature associates shame-proneness with poorer functioning and suggests that this may lead to psychopathology and early-onset substance misuse. Scant attention has been paid to the cognitive and emotional processes implicated. Further research is required to ascertain the strength of the shame-substance abuse relationship in young people and to develop appropriate interventions for this population.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/530/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology, University of Surrey']]
[u'Quantitative measurement of odor detection thresholds using an air dilution olfactometer, and association with genetic variants in a sample of diverse ancestry', ['Gillian R Cook', 'S. Krithika', 'Melissa Edwards', 'Paula Kavanagh', 'Esteban J Parra'], u'2014-10-09', u'Genetic association studies require a quantitative and reliable method for odor threshold assessment in order to examine the contribution of genetic variants to complex olfactory phenotypes. Our main goal was to assess the feasibility of a portable Scentroid air dilution olfactometer for use in such studies. Using the Scentroid SM110C and the SK5 n-butanol Sensitivity Kit (IDES Canada Inc.), n-butanol odor thresholds were determined for 182 individuals of diverse ancestry (mean age: 20.4 \xb1 2.5 years; n = 128 female; n = 54 male). Threshold scores from repeat participants were used to calculate a test-retest reliability coefficient, which was statistically significant (r = 0.754, p < 0.001, n = 29), indicating that the Scentroid provides reliable estimates of odor thresholds. In addition, we performed a preliminary genetic analysis evaluating the potential association of n-butanol odor thresholds to six single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) putatively involved in general olfactory sensitivity (GOS). The results of multiple linear regression analysis revealed no significant association between the SNPs tested and threshold scores. However, our sample size was relatively small, and our study was only powered to identify genetic markers with strong effects on olfactory sensitivity. Overall, we find that the Scentroid provides reliable quantitative measures of odor detection threshold and is well suited for genetic studies of olfactory sensitivity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/529/', ['Anthropology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics'], [u'Anthropology, University of Toronto', u'Anthropology, University of Toronto']]
[u'Nucleotide variation and balancing selection at the Ckma gene in Atlantic cod: Analysis with multiple merger coalescent models', ['Einar Arnason', 'Katrin Halldorsdottir'], u'2014-10-09', u'A high-fecundity organisms, such as Atlantic cod, can withstand substantial natural selection and can at any time simultaneously replace alleles at a number of loci due to their excess reproductive capacity. High-fecundity organisms may reproduce by sweepstakes leading to highly skewed heavy-tailed offspring distribution. Under such reproduction the Kingman coalescent of binary mergers breaks down and models of multiple merger coalescent are more appropriate. Here we study nucleotide variation at the Ckma (Creatine Kinase Muscle type A) gene in Atlantic cod. The gene shows extreme differentiation between the North (Canada, Greenland, Iceland, Norway, Barents Sea) and the South (Faroe Islands, North-, Baltic-, Celtic-, and Irish Seas) with a between regions FST > 0.8 whereas neutral loci show no differentiation. This is evidence for natural selection. The protein sequence is conserved by purifying selection whereas silent and non-coding sites show extreme differentiation. Relative to outgroup the site-frequency spectrum has three modes, a mode at singleton sites and two high frequency modes at opposite frequencies representing divergent branches of the gene genealogy that is evidence for balancing selection. Analysis with multiple-merger coalescent models can account for the high frequency of singleton sites and indicate reproductive sweepstakes. Coalescent time scales with population size and with the inverse of variance in offspring number. Parameter estimates using multiple-merger coalescent models show fast time-scales. Time-scales of mitochondrial DNA are about square root of the effective population size and time-scales of nuclear genes are much faster.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/528/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biogeography', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Institute of Biology, University of Iceland']]
[u'Loss of CITED1, an MITF regulator, drives a phenotype switch in vitro and can predict clinical outcome in primary melanoma tumours', ['Jill Howlin', 'Helena Cirenajwis', 'Barbara. Lettiero', 'Johan Staaf', 'Martin Lauss', 'Lao Saal', 'Ake Borg', 'Sofia K Gruvberger-Saal', 'Goran B Jonsson'], u'2014-10-09', u'CITED1 is a non-DNA binding transcriptional co-regulator whose expression can distinguish the \u2018proliferative\u2019 from \u2018invasive\u2019 signature in the phenotype-switching model of melanoma. We have found that CITED1 expression is repressed by TGF\u03b2 in addition to other \u2018proliferative\u2019 signature genes while the \u2018invasive\u2019 signature genes are upregulated. In agreement, CITED1 positively correlates with MITF expression and can discriminate the MITF-high/pigmentation tumor molecular subtype in a large cohort (120) of melanoma cell lines. Interestingly, CITED1 overexpression significantly suppressed MITF promoter activation, mRNA and protein expression levels while MITF was transiently upregulated following siRNA mediated CITED1 silencing. Conversely, MITF siRNA silencing resulted in CITED1 downregulation indicating a reciprocal relationship. Whole genome expression analysis identified a phenotype shift induced by CITED1 silencing and driven mainly by expression of MITF and a cohort of MITF target genes that were significantly altered. Concomitantly, we found changes in the cell-cycle profile that manifest as transient G1 accumulation, increased expression of CDKN1A and a reduction in cell viability. Additionally, we could predict survival outcome by classifying primary melanoma tumors using our in vitro derived \u2018CITED1-silenced\u2019 gene expression signature. We hypothesize that CITED1 acts a regulator of MITF, functioning to maintain MITF levels in a range compatible with tumourigenesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/516/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Division of Oncology-Pathology, Lund University Cancer Center/Medicon Village']]
[u'The Kern Fever in the Emergency Department Study (Kern FEDS): Clinical appearance, serious bacterial illness, and the meaning of uncertainty.', ['Paul Walsh', 'Allan Capote', 'Davinder Garcha', 'Vu Nguyen', 'Yvette Sanchez', 'Nanse Mendoza', 'Christina Thabit', 'Valerie Aguilar', 'James Pusavat'], u'2014-10-08', u"Background: Emergency department (ED) fever management algorithms require the clinician to categorize febrile children as \u2018ill\u2019 or \u2018not ill\u2019 appearing when determining the risk for serious bacterial illness (SBI). This study describes a natural experiment where an ED pediatric chart allowed clinicians a third option, \u2018unsure\u2019. Hypotheses: We hypothesized (1) that chart prompts would improve documentation of clinical appearance, and (2) that exam findings and prevalence of serious bacterial illness in infants categorized as \u2018unsure\u2019 would be intermediate between those who were ill and not ill appearing. Design: We conducted a retrospective study of 3005 ED patients aged 0-24 months who had microbiology testing for fever in the ED between 1/1/2006 and 11/30/2009. We modeled overall appearance as the dependent and individual physical findings as the independent variables with ordinal logistic regression to help establish the validity of clinical appearance as a concept. We then compared the prevalence of the components of SBI, bacterial meningitis, pneumonia, urinary tract infection (UTI) and positive blood cultures, between the categorizations, not ill appearing, unsure and ill appearing. Results: Clinical appearance was documented in 60/583 (10.3%) whose encounter was recorded on the template without prompts versus 2036/2420 (84%) with prompts (p<0.001). Age odds ratio (OR) 1.04 (95% CI 1.01, 1.07) weight (quintile) OR 0.81 (95% CI 0.70, 0.95), dehydration OR 9.68 (95% CI 7.17, 13.01), tachycardia OR 1.31 (95% CI 1.04, 1.68), tachypnea OR 2.44 (95% CI 1.61, 3.68), prior antipyretics OR 0.65 (95% CI 0.52, 0.83) and prior antibiotics OR 2.56 (95%CI 1.71, 3.82) were associated with appearance. There was an ordinal relationship between appearance and the prevalence of bacterial meningitis and pneumonia for the categories ill appearing, unsure, and not ill appearing. The prevalence of positive blood cultures among children categorized as \u2018not ill appearing' and 'unsure' was similar. Urinary tract infection (UTI) prevalence was similar regardless of appearance. Conclusion: Charting prompts increased documentation of clinical appearance. There was an ordinal relationship between the prevalence of meningitis, and pneumonia, across the categories 'ill appearing', 'unsure' and 'not ill appearing'. This was not the case for blood cultures or UTI.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/527/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Pediatrics'], [u'Emergency Medicine, UC Davis Medical Center', u'Department of Surgery, Kern Medical Center', u'Department of Emergency Medicine, Kern Medical Center', u'Department of Biology, California State University, Bakersfield', u'Department of Laboratory and Pathology, Kern Medical Center']]
[u'A note of caution: the threshold of toxicological concern (TTC) is unsuited as a decision rule for deciding whether mixture risk assessment is necessary', ['Thomas Backhaus'], u'2014-10-08', u'The threshold of toxicological concern has been suggested as a decision rule on whether a mixture risk assessment is required. According to the recent opinion on mixture toxicity, published by the EU scientific committees, mixture effects are not to be expected, if the mixture components do not share the same mode or mechanism of action and are present at or below their individual TTCs. This, however, ignores the statistical error propagation that is encountered when handling multi-component chemical mixtures, which results in a huge probability that one or more mixture components are de facto more toxic than estimated by the corresponding TTC. It is hence argued that the TTC is a valuable tool to bridge data gaps in case experimental toxicity data are missing, but it is unsuited without further refinement as a decision criterion on whether a mixture assessment is needed in a given exposure scenario.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/526/', ['Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department for Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'GenomePeek - An online tool for prokaryotic and metagenome analysis', ['Katelyn McNair', 'Rob Edwards'], u'2014-10-08', u'As more and more prokaryotic sequencing takes place, a method to quickly and accurately analyze this data is needed. Previous tools are mainly designed for metagenomic analysis and have limitations; such as long runtimes and significant false positive error rates. The online tool GenomePeek (edwards.sdsu.edu/GenomePeek) was developed to analyze both single genome and metagenome sequencing files, quickly and with low error rates. GenomePeek uses a sequence assembly approach; where reads to a set of conserved genes are extracted, assembled and then aligned against the highly specific reference database. GenomePeek was found to be faster than traditional approaches while still keeping error rates low, as well as offering unique data visualization options.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/525/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Computer Science, San Diego State University', u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University', u'Computational Sciences Research Center, San Diego State University', u'Mathematics and Computer Science Division, Argonne National Laboratory']]
[u'Combining computational models, semantic annotations, and associated simulation experiments in a graph database', ['Ron Henkel', 'Olaf Wolkenhauer', 'Dagmar Walthemath'], u'2014-10-06', u"Model repositories such as the BioModels Database or the CellML Model Repository are frequently accessed to retrieve computational models describing biological systems. However, the current designs of these databases limit the types of supported queries, and many data in these repositories cannot easily be accessed. Computational methods for model retrieval cannot be applied. In this paper we present a storage concept that meets this challenge. It grounds on a graph database, reflects the models' structure, incorporates semantic annotations and experiment descriptions, and ultimately connects different types of model-related data.The connections between heterogeneous model-related data and bio-ontologies enable efficient search via biological facts and grant access to new model features such as network structure.The introduced concept notably improves the access of computational models and associated simulations in a model repository. This has positive effects on tasks such as model search, retrieval, ranking, matching, filtering etc.We exemplify how CellML- and SBML-encoded models can be maintained in one database, how these models can be linked via annotations, and queried.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/376/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock', u'Stellenbosch Institute for Advanced Study (STIAS), Wallenberg Research Centre at Stellenbosch University']]
[u'The role of macrobiota in structuring microbial communities along rocky shores', ['Catherine A Pfister', 'Jack A Gilbert', 'Sean M Gibbons'], u'2014-10-06', u'Rocky shore microbial diversity presents an excellent system to test for microbial habitat specificity or generality, enabling us to decipher how common macrobiota shape microbial community structure. At two coastal locations in the northeast Pacific Ocean, we show that microbial composition was significantly different between inert surfaces, the biogenic surfaces that included rocky shore animals and an alga, and the water column plankton. While all sampled entities had a core of common OTUs, rare OTUs drove differences among biotic and abiotic substrates. For the mussel Mytilus californianus, the shell surface harbored greater alpha diversity compared to internal tissues of the gill and siphon. Strikingly, a 7-year experimental removal of this mussel from tidepools did not significantly alter the microbial community structure of microbes associated with inert surfaces when compared with unmanipulated tidepools. However, bacterial taxa associated with nitrate reduction had greater relative abundance with mussels present, suggesting an impact of increased animal-derived nitrogen on a subset of microbial metabolism. Because the presence of mussels did not affect the structure and diversity of the microbial community on adjacent inert substrates, microbes in this rocky shore environment may be predominantly affected through direct physical association with macrobiota.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/524/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago', u'Institute of Genomic and Systems Biology, Argonne National Labs', u'Biophysical Sciences Graduate Program, University of Chicago']]
[u'Stigma of mental illnesses in Pakistani university students: A cross sectional survey', ['Ahmed Waqas', 'Muhammad Zubair', 'Hamzah Ghulam', 'Muhammad Wajih Ullah', 'Muhammad Zubair Tariq Majeed'], u'2014-10-04', u'Background:  The objectives of the study were to explore the knowledge and attitudes of Pakistani university students toward mental illnesses. People with mental illnesses are challenged not only by their symptoms but also by the prejudices associated with their illness. Acknowledging the stigma of mental illness should be the first essential step toward devising an appropriate treatment plan. Methods: A cross-sectional survey was conducted at the University of Punjab, Lahore, CMH Lahore Medical and Dental College, Lahore, and University of Sargodha, Sub-campus Lahore, from February to May, 2014. The self-administered questionnaire consisted of three sections: demographics, general knowledge of psychiatric illnesses, and Community Attitudes towards Mental Illnesses (CAMI) Scale. The questionnaire was distributed to 650 participants enrolled in different disciplines (Social Sciences, Medicine and Formal Sciences). Results: Response rate was 81% (527/650 respondents). Mean age was 20.98 years. Most of the students (331, 62.8%) had an urban background and studied Social Sciences (238, 45.2%). 418 (79.3%) considered religion very important and most respondents considered psychiatrists (334, 63.4%) and spiritual leaders (72, 13.7%) to be best able to treat mental illnesses. 169 (32.1%) considered black magic to be a cause of mental illness. Only 215 (41%) had ever read an article on mental illnesses. Multiple regression analysis revealed study discipline, exposure, perceived causes of mental illnesses and superstitions to be significantly associated with attitudes towards mental illnesses (p < .05). Conclusion: Although low awareness and exposure were found in this sample of Pakistani university students, their attitude towards mental illnesses was generally positive. Most respondents gave supernatural explanations for mental illnesses but only a few believed that spiritual leaders can play a role in treatment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/523/', ['Epidemiology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry', u'FMH College of Medicine and Dentistry']]
[u'Representing SSR molecular marker profiles using concepts from Andean khipus', ['Reinhard Simon', 'Pablo Carhuapoma', 'Vilma Hualla', 'Marc Ghislain', 'Felipe de Mendiburu', 'Rene Gomez', 'Cinthya Zorilla', 'William Roca', 'Stef de Haan', 'Merideth Bonierbale'], u'2014-10-03', u'Genebanks increasingly use molecular markers for routine characterization of ex-situ collections and farmer managed diversity. The International Potato Center presently uses a SSR marker-kit to create molecular profiles for potato accessions. We identified a need for a compact graphical representation that allows comparative presentation of molecular diversity and accession characteristics - thereby permitting biologists and collection curators to have a simple means to interpret molecular data. Inspired by the ancient Andean qipus we devised a graph that standardizes representation while leaving room for updates of the marker kit and the collection of accessions. The molecular khipu permits combining and annotating a set of SSR loci with allele frequency and allele size distribution information. The design is flexible to incorporate updates on genetic diversity information. Graphical means facilitate reading of allele diversity information. As a compact graphical view it facilitates information storage and exchange. The SSR khipu will be useful to other genebanks and breeders. Software to create graphics in single or batch mode is available as R package \u2019khipu\u2019.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/522/', ['Anthropology', 'Biodiversity', 'Molecular Biology', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'International Potato Center', u'Universidad Agraria La Molina (UNALM)', u'Genetic Resources Program, International Potato Center']]
[u'Are improper kinetic models hampering drug development?', ['Ryan Walsh'], u'2014-10-02', u'Reproducibility of biological data is a significant problem in research today. One potential contributor to this, which has received little attention, is the over complication of enzyme kinetic inhibition models. This over complication of inhibitory models stems from the common use of the inhibitory term (1+[I]/Ki), an equilibrium binding term that does not distinguish between inhibitor binding and inhibitory effect. Since its initial appearance in the literature, around a century ago, the perceived mechanistic methods used in its production have spurred countless inhibitory equations. These equations are overly complex and are seldom compared to each other, which has destroyed their usefulness resulting in the proliferation and regulatory acceptance of simpler models such as ic50s for drug characterization. However, empirical analysis of inhibitory data recognizing the clear distinctions between inhibitor binding and inhibitory effect can produce simple logical inhibition models. In contrast to the common divergent practice of generating new inhibitory models for every inhibitory situation that presents itself, the empirical approach to inhibition modeling presented here, is broadly applicable allowing easy comparison and rational analysis of drug interactions. To demonstrate this, a simple kinetic model of DAPT, a compound which both activates and inhibits \u03b3-secretase is examined using excel. The empirical kinetic method described here allows for a more in depth understanding of drug interactions and disease mechanism.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/521/', ['Biochemistry', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Chemistry, Carleton University']]
[u'Action and cognition in task oriented coping: Factor structure and internal consistency of the CISS-21 with an Indian sample', ['Mayank Golpelwar'], u'2014-10-02', u'Objective : Although the Coping Instrument for Stressful Situations \u2013 21 item scale (CISS-21) offers excellent psychometric stability in samples from various countries, data about its validity and reliability among Indian samples is not easily accessible. The current study presents these data from a sample consisting of urban Indians working in the global service sector.\nMethod : Two hundred and seventy four professionals working in highly paying service sector jobs in India completed the CISS-21. The data was analyzed using principal factor analysis and reliability analysis.\nResults : Instead of the three-factor structure consisting of emotion-oriented, avoidance-oriented, and task-oriented coping strategies, a four-factor structure emerged. This resulting structure indicates that the current Indian sample perceived the task-oriented coping strategy as comprising of two distinct sub-factors: One involving cognitive-appraisal based mechanisms and another where a direct action-based approach is preferred.\nConclusion : among the Indian sample involved in the current study, CISS-21 appears to be a reliable and valid scale, albeit with a four instead of three factor structure. Na\xefve dialecticism and Biculturalism are presented and discussed as possible reasons for this unique factor structure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/519/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Human Resource Management, University of Bayreuth']]
[u'MRA-Wavelet subspace architecture for logic, probability, and symbolic sequence processing', ['Daniel J. Greenhoe'], u'2014-10-02', u'The linear subspaces of a multiresolution analysis (MRA) and the linear subspaces of the wavelet analysis induced by the MRA, together with the set inclusion relation, form a very special lattice of subspaces which herein is called a "primorial lattice". This paper introduces an operator R that extracts a set of 2^{N-1} element Boolean lattices from a 2^N element Boolean lattice. Used recursively, a sequence of Boolean lattices with decreasing order is generated---a structure that is similar to an MRA. A second operator, which is a special case of a "difference operator", is introduced that operates on consecutive Boolean lattices L_2^n and L_2^{n-1} to produce a sequence of orthocomplemented lattices. These two sequences, together with the subset ordering relation, form a primorial lattice P. A logic or probability constructed on a Boolean lattice L_2^N likewise induces a primorial lattice P. Such a logic or probability can then be rendered at N different "resolutions" by selecting any one of the N Boolean lattices in P and at N different "frequencies" by selecting any of the N different orthocomplemented lattices in P. Furthermore, P can be used for symbolic sequence analysis by projecting sequences of symbols onto the sublattices in P using one of three lattice projectors introduced. P can be used for symbolic sequence processing by judicious rejection and selection of projected sequences. Examples of symbolic sequences include sequences of logic values, sequences of probabilistic events, and genomic sequences (as used in "genomic signal processing").', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/520/', ['Genomics', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'National Chiao Tung University']]
[u'The integrated model of consciousness', ['Graeme E Smith'], u'2014-09-29', u'Consciousness is simple by definition, and complex by extension. For the first time we may have a look into some of the complexities of Human Consciousness, and how they may have accreted to core consciousness over millenia. From a Core Consciousness that can be traced to the Optical Tectum in early pre-amphibious ancestors, or even earlier in the evolutionary record, to an advanced model that includes at least 6 different sub-models, and grew from an early model of consciousness, we will see the accretion of layers of consciousness upon the basic core consciousness despite setbacks and variations in the evolution of the brain. Similar to some theories that make the mistake of Scala Naturae this theory shows a scale of elaboration that is not meant to reflect the pattern of evolution, merely a list of elaborations that has become standard within the human brain. It is not meant to be exhaustive, merely indicative of the complexity of consciousness as experienced by human beings. That the stages in development of the human brain make a track through time, is not meant to mean that in fact this track was as straight forward or simple as the model might suggest.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/518/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Computational Science'], [u'GreySmith Institute of Advanced Studies']]
[u'Occurrence of the Megatoothed sharks (Lamniformes:Otodontidae) in Alabama, USA', ['Dana J Ehret', 'Jun A. Ebersole'], u'2014-09-29', u'The Otodontidae include some of the largest sharks to ever live in the world\u2019s oceans (i.e. Carcharocles megalodon). Here we report on Paleocene and Eocene occurrences of Otodus obliquus and Carcharocles auriculatus from Alabama, USA. Teeth of Otodus are rarely encountered in the Gulf Coastal Plain and this report is one of the first records for Alabama. Carcharocles auriculatus is more common in the Eocene deposits of Alabama, but its occurrence has been largely overlooked in the literature. We also refute the occurrence of the Oligocene Carcharocles angustidens in the state. Raised awareness and increased collecting of under-sampled geologic formations in Alabama will likely increase sample sizes of O. obliquus and C. auriculatus and also might unearth other otodontids, such as C. megalodon and C. chubutensis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/517/', ['Paleontology'], [u'University of Alabama Museum of Natural History', u'Collections Department, McWane Science Center']]
[u'Hot spots and labyrinths: Why neuromodulation devices for episodic migraine should be personalized', ['Markus A Dahlem', 'Bernd Schmidt', 'Ingo Bojak', 'Sebastian Boie', 'Frederike Kneer', 'Nouchine Hadjikhani', 'Jurgen Kurths'], u'2014-09-26', u"Stimulation protocols for medical devices should be rationally designed. For episodic migraine with aura we outline model-based design strategies towards preventive and acute therapies using stereotactic neuromodulation. To this end, we regard a localized spreading depression (SD) wave segment as a central element in migraine pathophysiology. To describe nucleation and propagation features of the SD wave segment, we define the new concepts of cortical hot spots and labyrinths, respectively. In particular, we firstly focus exclusively on curvature-induced dynamical properties by studying a generic reaction-diffusion model of SD on the folded cortical surface. This surface is described with increasing level of details, including finally personalized simulations using patient's magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanner readings. At this stage, the only relevant factor that can modulate nucleation and propagation paths is the Gaussian curvature, which has the advantage of being rather readily accessible by MRI. We conclude with discussing further anatomical factors, such as areal, laminar, and cellular heterogeneity, that in addition to and in relation to Gaussian curvature determine the generalized concept of cortical hot spots and labyrinths as target structures for neuromodulation.Our numerical simulations suggest that these target structures are like fingerprints, they are individual features of each migraine sufferer. The goal in the future will be to provide individualized neural tissue simulations. These simulations should predict the clinical data and therefore can also serve as a test bed for exploring stereotactic neuromodulation.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/515/', ['Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Neurology'], [u'Department of Physics, Humboldt University Berlin, Germany', u'Department of Biological Physik, Max Planck Institute for the Physics of Complex Systems', u'School of Systems Engineering, University of Reading', u'Department of Mathematics, The University of Auckland', u'Department of Software Engineering and Theoretical Computer Science, Technische Universit\xe4t Berlin', u'Martinos Center for Biomedical Imaging, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School', u'Gillberg Neuropsychiatry Centre, University of Gothenburg', u'Research Domain Transdisciplinary Concepts & Methods, Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research']]
[u'The CombineArchive Toolkit - facilitating the transfer of research results', ['Martin Scharm', 'Florian Wendland', 'Martin Peters', 'Markus Wolfien', 'Tom Theile', 'Dagmar Waltemath'], u'2014-09-25', u'Sharing in silico experiments is essential for the advance of research in computational biology. Consequently, the COMBINE archive was designed as a digital container format. It eases the management of numerous files, fosters collaboration, and ultimately enables the exchange of reproducible research results. However, manual handling of COMBINE archives is tedious and error prone. We therefore developed the CombineArchive Toolkit. It supports scientists in promoting and publishing their work by means of creating, exploring, modifying, and sharing archives.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/514/', ['Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Dept. of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock']]
[u'Musculoskeletal modeling of an ostrich (Struthio camelus) pelvic limb: Influence of limb orientation on muscular capacity during locomotion', ['John R Hutchinson', 'Jeffery W Rankin', 'Jonas Rubenson', 'Kate H Rosenbluth', 'Robert A Siston', 'Scott L Delp'], u'2014-09-25', u'We developed a three-dimensional, biomechanical computer model of the 36 major pelvic limb muscle groups in an ostrich (Struthio camelus) to investigate muscle function in this, the largest of extant birds and model organism for many studies of locomotor mechanics, body size, anatomy and evolution. Combined with experimental data, we use this model to test two main hypotheses. We first query whether ostriches use limb orientations (joint angles) that optimize the moment-generating capacities of their muscles during walking or running. Next, we test whether ostriches use limb orientations at mid-stance that keep their extensor muscles near maximal, and flexor muscles near minimal, moment arms. Our two hypotheses relate to the control priorities that a large bipedal animal might evolve under biomechanical constraints to achieve more effective static weight support. We find that ostriches do not use limb orientations to optimize the moment-generating capacities or moment arms of their muscles. We infer that dynamic properties of muscles or tendons might be better candidates for locomotor optimization. Regardless, general principles explaining why species choose particular joint orientations during locomotion are lacking, raising the question of whether such general principles exist or if clades evolve different patterns (e.g. weighting of muscle force-length or force-velocity properties in selecting postures). This leaves theoretical studies of muscle moment arms estimated for extinct animals at an impasse until studies of extant taxa answer these questions. Finally, we compare our model\u2019s results against those of two prior studies of ostrich limb muscle moment arms, finding general agreement for many muscles. Some flexor and extensor muscles exhibit self-stabilization patterns (posture-dependent switches between flexor/extensor action) that ostriches may use to coordinate their locomotion. However, some conspicuous areas of disagreement in our results illustrate some cautionary principles. Importantly, tendon-travel empirical measurements of muscle moment arms must be carefully designed to preserve 3D muscle geometry lest their accuracy suffer relative to that of anatomically realistic models. The dearth of accurate experimental measurements of 3D moment arms of muscles in birds leaves uncertainty regarding the relative accuracy of different modelling or experimental datasets such as in ostriches. Our model, however, provides a comprehensive set of 3D estimates of muscle actions in ostriches for the first time, emphasizing that avian limb mechanics are highly three-dimensional and complex, and how no muscles act purely in the sagittal plane. A comparative synthesis of experiments and models such as ours could provide powerful synthesis into how anatomy, mechanics and control interact during locomotion and how these interactions evolve. Such a framework could remove obstacles impeding the analysis of muscle function in extinct taxa.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/513/', ['Bioengineering', 'Computational Biology', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Kinesiology'], [u'Structure and Motion Laboratory, Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College', u'Bioengineering Department, Stanford University', u'School of Sport Science, Exercise and Health, The University of Western Australia', u'Department of Kinesiology, Pennsylvania State University', u'Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, The Ohio State University']]
[u'Intragenomic polymorphisms among high-copy loci: A genus-wide study of nuclear ribosomal DNA in Asclepias (Apocynaceae)', ['Kevin Weitemier', 'Shannon C. K. Straub', 'Mark Fishbein', 'Aaron Liston'], u'2014-09-24', u"Despite knowledge that concerted evolution of high-copy loci is often imperfect, few studies investigate the extent of intragenomic polymorphisms and comparisons across a large number of species are rarely made. We present a bioinformatic pipeline for characterizing polymorphisms within an individual among copies of a high-copy locus. Results are presented for nuclear ribosomal DNA (nrDNA) across the milkweed genus, Asclepias. The 18S-26S portion of the nrDNA cistron of Asclepias syriaca served as a reference for assembly of the region from 124 samples representing 90 species of Asclepias. Reads were mapped back to each individual's consensus and at each position reads differing from the consensus were tallied using a custom perl script. Low frequency polymorphisms existed in all individuals (mean = 5.8%). Most nrDNA positions (91%) were polymorphic in at least one individual, with polymorphic sites being less frequent in subunit regions and loops. Highly polymorphic sites existed in each individual, with highest abundance in the \u201cnoncoding\u201d ITS regions. Phylogenetic signal was present in the distribution of intragenomic polymorphisms across the genus. Intragenomic polymorphisms in nrDNA are common in Asclepias, being found at higher frequency than any other study to date. The high and variable frequency of polymorphisms across species highlights concerns that phylogenetic applications of nrDNA may be error-prone. The new analytical approach provided here is applicable to other taxa and other high-copy regions characterized by low coverage genome sequencing (genome skimming).", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/512/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Botany & Plant Pathology, Oregon State University', u'Department of Biology, Hobart and William Smith Colleges', u'Department of Botany, Oklahoma State University']]
[u'The electronic McPhail trap', ['Ilyas Potamitis', 'Iraklis Rigakis'], u'2014-09-22', u'Certain insects affect cultivations in a detrimental way. A notable case is the Olive fruit \ufb02y Bactrocera oleae (Diptera: Tephritidae) that in Europe alone causes billions of euros crop loss per year. Pests can be controlled with aerial and ground bait pesticide sprays, the efficiency of which depends on knowing the time and location of insect infestations as early as possible. The inspection of traps is currently carried out manually. Automatic monitoring traps can enhance efficient monitoring of flying pests by identifying and counting targeted pests as they enter the trap. This work deals with the hardware setup of an insect trap with an embedded opto-electronic sensor that automatically records insects as they fly in the trap. The sensors responsible for detecting the insect is an array of phototransistors receiving light from an infrared LED. The wing-beat recording is based on the interruption of the emitted light due to the partial occlusion from insect\u2019s wings. We show that the recording are of high quality paving the way for automatic recognition and transmission of insect detections from the field to a smartphone. This work emphasizes the hardware implementation of the core sensor giving all necessary implementation details needed to construct it.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/510/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology'], [u'Dept. of Music Technology & Acoustics, Technological Educational Institute of Crete', u'Dept. of Electronics, Technological Educational Institute of Crete']]
[u'Temporal variability is a personalized feature of the human microbiome', ['Gilberto E Flores', 'J Gregory Caporaso', 'Jessica B Henley', 'Jai Ram Rideout', 'Daniel Domogala', 'John Chase', 'Jonathan W Leff', 'Yoshiki Vazquez-Baeza', 'Antonio Gonzalez', 'Rob Knight', 'Robert R Dunn', 'Noah Fierer'], u'2014-09-22', u'Background: It is now apparent that the complex microbial communities found on and in the human body (the human microbiome) vary across individuals. What has largely been missing from previous studies is an understanding of how these communities vary over time within individuals. To the extent to which it has been considered, it is often assumed that temporal variability is negligible for healthy adults. Here we address this gap in understanding by profiling the forehead, gut (fecal), palm, and tongue microbial communities in 85 adults, weekly over three months.\nResults: We found that skin (forehead and palm) varied most in the number of taxa present, whereas gut and tongue communities varied more in the relative abundances of taxa. Within each body habitat, there was a wide range of temporal variability across the study population, with some individuals consistently harboring more variable communities than others. The best predictor of these differences in variability across individuals was microbial diversity; individuals with more diverse gut or tongue communities were less variable than individuals with less diverse communities.\nConclusions: This expanded sampling allowed us to observe consistently high levels of temporal variability in both diversity and community structure in all body habitats studied. These findings suggest that temporal dynamics may need to be considered when attempting to link changes in microbiome structure to changes in health status.Furthermore, our findings show that, not only is the composition of an individual\u2019s microbiome highly personalized, but their degree of temporal variability is also a personalized feature.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/509/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, California State University, Northridge', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University', u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'Institute for Genomics and Systems Biology, Argonne National Laboratory', u'Cooperative Institute for Research in Environmental Scienes, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Biofrontiers Institute, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Colorado of Boulder', u'Department of Biology and Keck Center for Behavioral Biology, North Carolina State University']]
[u'Associating disease-related genetic variants in intergenic regions to the genes they impact', ['Geoff Macintyre', 'Antonio Jimeno Yepes', 'Cheng Soon Ong', 'Karin Verspoor'], u'2014-09-21', u'We present a method to assist in interpretation of the functional impact of intergenic disease-associated SNPs that is not limited to search strategies proximal to the SNP. The method builds on two sources of external knowledge: the growing understanding of three-dimensional spatial relationships in the genome, and the substantial repository of information about relationships among genetic variants, genes, and diseases captured in the published biomedical literature. We integrate chromatin conformation capture data (HiC) with literature support to rank putative target genes of intergenic disease-associated SNPs. We demonstrate that this hybrid method outperforms a genomic distance baseline on a small test set of expression quantitative trait loci, as well as either method individually. In addition, we show the potential for this method to uncover relationships between intergenic SNPs and target genes across chromosomes. With more extensive chromatin conformation capture data becoming readily available, this method provides a way forward towards functional interpretation of SNPs in the context of the three dimensional structure of the genome in the nucleus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/507/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbourne', u'Centre for Neural Engineering, The University of Melbourne', u'Department of Computer Science, Australian National University', u'Machine Learning Research Group, NICTA Canberra Research Laboratory', u'Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, The University of Melbourne', u'Health and Biomedical Informatics Centre, The University of Melbourne']]
[u'Ethylene induces soil microbes to delay fruit ripening', ['Guenevere Perry', 'Diane Williams'], u'2014-09-21', u'The consumer demand for fresh fruits and vegetables increases every year, and farmers need a low cost novel method to reduce post-harvest loss and preserve the quality of fresh fruits and vegetables. This study identifies a method to induce soil bacteria to biosynthesize a nitrile compound that potentially enters the plants tissue and negatively affects climacteric ripening and delays the ripening process at 20-30\u02daC. This study used soil rich with soil microbes, to delay the ripening of climacteric fruit. The soil was treated with nitrogen, a heavy metal, and ethylene gas.\nEthylene induced the soil to delay the ripening of organic bananas and peaches. A prototype transportation container maintained fruit fresh for up to 72 h at 20-30\u02daC. The fruit retained color, firmness, texture, no bruising and minimal spotting. The soil also prevented fungal infection in all samples. GC-MS analysis suggests ethylene induced the soil microbes to release an acetonitrile compound into the gaseous environment. The nitrile is released in low concentrations, but mature plants (fruits) contain very low levels of indole-3-acetonitrile (IAN) or indole-3-acetic acid (IAA).\nThe nitrile may obstruct or modify the mature plants (fruit) late stages development process, thus delay the climacteric ripening process and retarding the physiological and phenotypic effects of fruit ripening. We believe this study may have strong applications for post-harvest biotechnology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/506/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Microbiology'], [u'G&A Innovative Solutions, LLC']]
[u'Network based meta-analysis prediction of microenvironmental relays involved in stemness of human embryonic stem cells', ['Virginie Mournetas', 'Quentin M. Nunes', 'Patricia A. Murray', 'Christopher M. Sanderson', 'David G. Fernig'], u'2014-09-18', u'Background. Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are pluripotent cells derived from the inner cell mass of in vitro fertilised blastocysts, which can either be maintained in an undifferentiated state or committed into lineages under determined culture conditions. These cells offer great potential for regenerative medicine, but at present, little is known about the mechanisms that regulate hESC stemness; in particular, the role of cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions remain relatively unexplored. Methods and results. In this study we have performed an in silico analysis of cell-microenvironment interactions to identify novel proteins that may be responsible for the maintenance of hESC stemness. A hESC transcriptome of 8,934 mRNAs was assembled using a meta-analysis approach combining the analysis of microarrays and the use of databases for annotation. The STRING database was utilised to construct a protein-protein interaction network focused on extracellular and transcription factor components contained within the assembled transcriptome. This interactome was structurally studied and filtered to identify a short list of 92 candidate proteins, which may regulate hESC stemness. Conclusion. We hypothesise that this list of proteins, either connecting extracellular components with transcriptional networks, or with hub or bottleneck properties, may contain proteins likely to be involved in determining stemness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/415/', ['Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Institute of Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool', u'Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Integrative Biology, University of Liverpool', u'NIHR Liverpool Pancreas Biomedical Research Unit, Institute of Translational Medicine, University of Liverpool']]
[u'Evaluating a lightweight transcriptome assembly pipeline on two closely related ascidian species', ['Elijah K Lowe', 'Billie J Swalla', 'C. Titus Brown'], u'2014-09-18', u'De novo transcriptome sequencing and assembly for non-model organisms has become prevalent in the past decade. However, most assembly approaches are computationally expensive, and little in-depth evaluation has been done to compare de novo approaches. We sequenced several developmental stages of two free-spawning marine species\u2014Molgula occulta and Molgula oculata\u2014assembled their transcriptomes using four different combinations of preprocessing and assembly approaches, and evaluated the quality of the assembly. We present a straightforward and reproducible mRNAseq assembly protocol that combines quality filtering, digital normalization, and assembly, together with several metrics to evaluate our de novo assemblies. The use of digital normalization in the protocol reduces the time and memory needed to complete the assembly and makes this pipeline available to labs without large computing infrastructure. Despite varying widely in basic assembly statistics, all of the assembled transcriptomes evaluate well in metrics such as gene recovery and estimated completeness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/505/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Computer Science and Engineering, Quantitative Biology, Michigan State University', u'Biology Department and Friday Harbor Laboratories, University of Washington', u'MSU Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Computer Science and Engineering, Quantitative Biology, Michigan State University']]
[u"The design of Maple's sum-of-products and POLY data structures for representing mathematical objects", ['Michael M Monagan'], u'2014-09-17', u"The principal data structure in Maple used to represent polynomials and general mathematical expressions involving functions like sqrt(x), sin x, exp(2x), y'(x) etc., is known to the Maple developers as the sum-of-products data structure. Gaston Gonnet, as the primary author of the Maple kernel, designed and implemented this data structure in the early 80s. As part of the process of simplifying a mathematical formula, he represented every Maple object and every sub-object uniquely in memory. This makes testing for equality, which is used in many operations, very fast. In this article, on occasion of Gaston's retirement, we present details of his design, its pros and cons, and changes we have made to it over the years. One of the cons is the sum-of-products data structure is not nearly as efficient for multiplying multivariate polynomials as other special purpose computer algebra systems. We describe the new data structure called POLY which we added to Maple 17 (released 2013) to improve performance for polynomials in Maple, and recent work done for Maple 18 (released 2014).", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/504/', ['Computational Science'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Simon Fraser University']]
[u'EOL-BHL-NESCent Research Sprint Report', ['Cynthia S Parr', 'Craig R McClain'], u'2014-09-17', u'There are exciting biological questions which require programming and large online data resources to address, yet many traditionally-trained biologists lack the informatics skills needed for successful analysis. In the last decade, new aggregated, open data resources have become available, but these are not often being leveraged effectively for big data research. Using a new hackathon-inspired format, the EOL-BHL-NESCent Research Sprint facilitated scientific discovery by supporting teams to use online data resources such as the Encyclopedia of Life and Biodiversity Heritage Library to answer their biological questions. We describe the methods of the research sprint and present results indicating its success in producing publications, in introducing scientists to large-scale informatics resources and approaches, and in encouraging new collaborations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/503/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution', u'National Evolutionary Synthesis Center, Duke University']]
[u'Synthesis and anti-tubercular activity of 3-substituted benzothiophene-1,1-dioxides', ['N. Susantha Chandrasekera', 'Mai A Bailey', 'Megan Files', 'Torey Alling', 'Stephanie K Florio', 'Juliane Ollinger', 'Joshua Odingo', 'Tanya Parish'], u'2014-09-17', u'We demonstrated that the 3-substituted benzothiophene-1,1-dioxide class of compounds are effective inhibitors of Mycobacterium tuberculosis growth under aerobic conditions. We examined substitution at the C-3 position of the benzothiophene-1,1-dioxide series systematically to delineate structure-activity relationships influencing potency and cytotoxicity. Compounds were tested for inhibitory activity against virulent M. tuberculosis and eukaryotic cells. The tetrazole substituent was most potent, with a minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of 2.6 \xb5M. However, cytotoxicity was noted with even more potency (Vero cell TC50 = 0.1 \xb5M). Oxadiazoles had good anti-tubercular activity (MICs of 3\u20138 \xb5M), but imidazoles, thiadiazoles and thiazoles had little activity. Cytotoxicity did not track with anti-tubercular activity, suggesting different targets or mode of action between bacterial and eukaryotic cells. However, we were unable to derive analogs without cytotoxicity; all compounds synthesized were cytotoxic (TC50 of 0.1\u20135 \xb5M). We conclude that cytotoxicity is a liability in this series precluding it from further development. However, the series has potent anti-tubercular activity and future efforts towards identifying the mode of action could result in the identification of novel drug targets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/502/', ['Microbiology', 'Global Health', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'TB Discovery Research, Infectious Disease Research Institute']]
[u'SUPERSMART: ecology and evolution in the era of big data', ['Alexandre Antonelli', 'Fabien L. Condamine', 'Hannes Hettling', 'Karin Nilsson', 'R Henrik Nilsson', 'Bengt Oxelman', 'Michael J Sanderson', 'Herve Sauquet', 'Ruud Scharn', 'Daniele Silvestro', 'Mats Topel', 'Rutger A Vos'], u'2014-09-15', u'Rapidly growing biological data volumes \u2013 including molecular sequences, species traits, geographic occurrences, specimen collections, and fossil records \u2013 hold an unprecedented, yet largely unexplored potential to reveal how ecological and evolutionary processes generate and maintain biodiversity. Most biodiversity studies integrating ecological data and evolutionary history use an idiosyncratic step-by-step approach for the reconstruction of time-calibrated phylogenies in light of ecological and evolutionary scenarios. Here we introduce a conceptual framework, termed SUPERSMART (Self-Updating Platform for Estimating Rates of Speciation and Migration, Ages, and Relationships of Taxa), and provide a proof of concept for dealing with the moving targets of biodiversity research. This framework reconstructs dated phylogenies based on the assembly of molecular datasets and collects pertinent data on ecology, distribution, and fossils of the focal clade. The data handled for each step are continuously updated as databases accumulate new records. We exemplify the practice of our method by presenting comprehensive phylogenetic and dating analyses for the orders Primates and the Gentianales. We believe that this emerging framework will provide an invaluable tool for a wide range of hypothesis-driven research questions in ecology and evolution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/501/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Arizona', u'Laboratoire \xc9cologie, Syst\xe9matique, \xc9volution, Universit\xe9 Paris-Sud']]
[u'A process to support species conservation planning and climate change readiness in protected areas', ['Nicole F. Angeli', 'Javier Otegui', 'Margot Wood', 'Emma P. Gomez-Ruiz'], u'2014-09-15', u'Global change will causes species range shifts, affecting species interactions. The conservation implications of species range shifts are widely unknown. Through forming an ecology-bioinformatics partnership at the National Evolutionary Synthesis Center-Encyclopedia of Life-Biodiversity Heritage Library Research Sprint, we developed an analytical pipeline to test whether global trends are forcing shifts of mutually dependent species in different spatial directions. We calculated potential overlap between dependent species across climate scenarios within protected areas. We selected the Great Green Macaw (Ara ambiguus) and its nesting host tree the Giant Almendro (Dipteryx panamensis) as a proof-of-concept species pair that will be affected by range shifts. We demonstrate with modeling that the Great Green Macaw will lose approximately 64.0% of suitable habitat in future scenarios, while the Giant Almendro will lose 59.7% of suitable habitat. Species habitat overlaps across 85.3 % of its currently predicted distribution and 69.07% of the remaining habitat predicted in future scenarios. After accounting for spatially explicit protected areas networks, only 20.3% and 40.2 % of remaining habitat persists within protected areas across climate scenarios for the Almendro and Macaw, respectively, and 19.9 % of that habitat overlaps between the species. Currently, we are conducting a literature review to select and expand our list of species for use in the pipeline to detect trends for climate readiness planning in protected areas networks. The analytical pipeline will produce habitat suitability maps for multiple climate scenarios based on current distributions, and these maps will potentially be embedded into the Encyclopedia of Life as free, downloadable files. This is just one of several broader impact products from the research. This work demonstrates that modeling the future distribution of species is limited by biotic interactions and conservation planning should account for climate change scenarios.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/492/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Department of Wildlife and Fisheries Sciences, Texas A&M University', u'Museum of Natural History, University of Colorado, Boulder']]
[u'Endothelial cell-initiated extravasation of cancer cells visualized in zebrafish', ['Masamitsu Kanada', 'Jinyan Zhang', 'Libo Yan', 'Takashi Sakurai', 'Susumu Terakawa'], u'2014-09-13', u'The extravasation of cancer cells, a key step for distant metastasis, is thought to be initiated by disruption of the endothelial barrier by malignant cancer cells. An endothelial covering-type extravasation of cancer cells in addition to conventional cancer cell invasion-type extravasation was dynamically visualized in a zebrafish hematogenous metastasis model. The inhibition of VEGF-signaling impaired the invasion-type extravasation via inhibition of cancer cell polarization and motility regulated by an intracellular signaling. Paradoxically, the inhibition of VEGF-signaling showed the promotion, rather than the inhibition, of the endothelial covering-type extravasation of cancer cells, with structural changes in the endothelial walls. These findings may be a clue to the full understanding of the metastatic process as well as the metastatic acceleration by antiangiogenic reagents observed in preclinical studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/500/', ['Cell Biology', 'Oncology'], [u'Medical Photonics Research Center, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine', u'Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University School of Medicine', u'Electronics-inspired Interdiciplinary Research Institute, Toyohashi University of Technology', u'Department of Health Science, Tokoha University']]
[u'A global phylogenetic analysis in order to determine the host species and geography dependent features present in the evolution of avian H9N2 Influenza Hemagglutinin', ['Andrew R Dalby', 'Munir Iqbal'], u'2014-09-12', u'A complete phylogenetic analysis of all of the H9N2 hemagglutinin sequences that were collected between 1966 and 2012 was carried out in order to build a picture of the geographical and host specific evolution of the hemagglutinin protein. To improve the quality and applicability of the output data the sequences were divided into subsets based upon location and host species.\nThe phylogenetic analysis of hemagglutinin reveals that the protein has distinct lineages between China and the Middle East, and that wild birds in both regions retain a distinct form of the H9 molecule, from the same lineage as the ancestral hemagglutinin. The results add further evidence to the hypothesis that the current predominant H9N2 hemagglutinin lineage might have originated in Southern China. The study also shows that there are sampling problems that affect the reliability of this and any similar analysis. This raises questions about the surveillance of H9N2 and the need for wider sampling of the virus in the environment.\nThe results of this analysis are also consistent with a model where hemagglutinin has predominantly evolved by neutral drift punctuated by occasional selection events. These selective events have produced the current pattern of distinct lineages in the Middle East, Korea and China. This interpretation is in agreement with existing studies that have shown that there is widespread intra-country sequence evolution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/499/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Virology'], [u'Faculty of Science and Technology, University of Westminster', u'Avian Viral Diseases Programme, The Pirbright Institute, Compton Laboratory']]
[u'Stimulation of glucose uptake in murine soleus muscle and adipocytes by 5-(4-phenoxybutoxy)psoralen (PAP-1) may be mediated by Kv1.5 rather than Kv1.3', ['Robert A Ngala', 'Mohamed S Zaibi', 'Kenneth Langlands', 'Claire J Stocker', 'Jonathan RS Arch', 'Michael A Cawthorne'], u'2014-09-11', u'Kv1 channels are shaker-related potassium channels that influence insulin sensitivity. Kv1.3 -/- mice are protected from diet-induced insulin resistance and some studies suggest that Kv1.3 inhibitors provide similar protection. However, it is unclear whether blockade of Kv1.3 in adipocytes or skeletal muscle increases glucose uptake. There is no evidence that the related channel Kv1.5 has any influence on insulin sensitivity and its expression in adipose tissue has not been reported. PAP-1 is a selective inhibitor of Kv1.3, with 23-fold, 32-fold and 125-fold lower potencies as an inhibitor of Kv1.5, Kv1.1 and Kv1.2 respectively. Soleus muscles from wild-type and genetically obese ob/ob mice were incubated with 2-deoxy[1-14C]-glucose for 45 min and formation of 2-deoxy[1-14C]-glucose-6-phosphate was measured. White adipocytes were incubated with D-[U-14C]-glucose for 1h. TNFalpha and Il-6 secretion from white adipose tissue pieces were measured by enzyme-linked-immunoassay. In the absence of insulin, a high concentration (3 \u03bcM) of PAP-1 stimulated 2-deoxy[1-14C]-glucose uptake in soleus muscle of wild-type and obese mice by 30% and 40% respectively, and in adipocytes by 20% and 50% respectively. PAP-1 also stimulated glucose uptake by adipocytes at the lower concentration of 1 \u03bcM, but at 300 nM, which is still 150-fold higher than its EC50 value for inhibition of the Kv1.3 channel, it had no effect. In the presence of insulin, PAP-1 (3 \u03bcM) had a significant effect only in adipocytes from obese mice. PAP-1 (3 \u03bcM) reduced the secretion of TNFalpha by adipose tissue but had no effect on the secretion of IL-6. Expression of Kv1.1, Kv1.2, Kv1.3 and Kv1.5 was determined by RT-PCR. Kv1.3 and Kv1.5 mRNA were detected in liver, gastrocnemius muscle, soleus muscle and white adipose tissue from wild-type and ob/ob mice, except that Kv1.3 could not be detected in gastrocnemius muscle, nor Kv1.5 in liver, of wild-type mice. Expression of both genes was generally higher in liver and muscle of ob/ob mice compared to wild-type mice. Kv1.5 appeared to be expressed more highly than Kv1.3 in soleus muscle, adipose tissue and adipocytes of wild-type mice. Expression of Kv1.2 appeared to be similar to that of Kv1.3 in soleus muscle and adipose tissue, but Kv1.2 was undetectable in adipocytes. Kv1.1 could not be detected in soleus muscle, adipose tissue or adipocytes. We conclude that inhibition of Kv1 channels by PAP-1 stimulates glucose uptake by adipocytes and soleus muscle of wild-type and ob/ob mice, and reduces the secretion of TNFalpha by adipose tissue. However, these effects are more likely due to inhibition of Kv1.5 than to inhibition of Kv1.3 channels.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/498/', ['Biochemistry', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Pharmacology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Molecular Medicine, School of Medical Sciences, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science & Technology', u'Clore Laboratory, University of Buckingham']]
[u'Additive global cerebral blood flow normalization in arterial spin labeling perfusion imaging', ['Stephanie B Stewart', 'Jonathan M Koller', 'Meghan C Campbell', 'Joel S Perlmutter', 'Kevin J Black'], u'2014-09-11', u'To determine how different methods of normalizing for global cerebral blood flow (gCBF) affect image quality and sensitivity to cortical activation, pulsed arterial spin labeling (pASL) scans obtained during a visual task were normalized by either additive or multiplicative normalization of modal gCBF. Normalization by either method increased the statistical significance of cortical activation by a visual stimulus. However, image quality was superior with additive normalization, whether judged by intensity histograms or by reduced variability within gray and white matter.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/464/', ['Neuroscience', 'Neurology'], [u'Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Division of Biology and Biomedical Sciences, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Programs in Physical Therapy and Occupational Therapy, Washington University School of Medicine']]
[u'Different running in shod vs. minimal footwear/barefoot runners - adaptions for prevention of injuries', ['Martin Daumer', 'Paul Subkowski', 'Michael Trost', 'Christoph Stolle', 'Christine Kleinmond', 'Matthias Fasching', 'Markus Walther', 'Christian Lederer'], u'2014-09-11', u'In the last years the number of long distance runners who wear minimal footwear or run completely barefoot increased considerably. There is an ongoing debate about the benefits and risks of running in minimal footwear/barefoot instead of running in conventional running shoes. The objectives were to investigate the effect of different types of shoes as well as of different running techniques on acceleration of centre of gravity and to explore a potential link to injuries (subjects are described in table 1). We assessed data with a mobile accelerometry device (actibelt \xae, http://www.actibelt.com) during competition. Three runners were additionally investigated during a treadmill test using a high speed camera system simultaneously coupled to a wireless stream of acceleration data. Acceleration raw data was analysed with standardized algorithm packages using R software environment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/497/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Orthopedics'], [u'Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute', u'ClinProject UG', u'Trium Analysis Online GmbH', u'Sch\xf6n Klinik M\xfcnchen Harlaching']]
[u'On the measurement of running style', ['Martin Daumer', 'Michael Trost', 'Paul Subkowski', 'Andreas Schneider', 'Damian Mrowca', 'Rui Ding', 'Han Gao', 'Markus Walther', 'Christian Lederer'], u'2014-09-11', u'The measurement of running style must be ecologically valid. The individual running style has an impact on the running performance as well as the running injury risk. In order to increase the performance and lower the injury risk, runners should be educated towards a healthy running style. But before advice can be made it is crucial to distinguish running styles from each other. Thus, it is interesting to detect and optimize the running style of individuals. The goal is to evaluate the possibility for a running style app using accelerometry data, which is able to track and display the user\u2019s current running style by using accelerometry data, based on which advice can be given for a healthy and efficient running style with the help of gaming tools (meta product). To validate the approach, a gold standard with outdoor running acceleration data has to be created.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/496/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Public Health'], [u'Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute', u'Sch\xf6n Klinik M\xfcnchen Harlaching']]
[u'Development and testing of a new type of \u201ebarefoot running shoe\u201c: The freeheel runningpad', ['Martin Daumer', 'Michael Trost', 'Paul Subkowski', 'Christian Lederer'], u'2014-09-10', u'Common barefoot running shoes or minimal footwear have one or several of the following properties/deficiencies, depending on the type and brand and personal taste: - Coverage of a considerable fraction of the foot\u2019s surface with textile/plastic leading to sub-optimal foot climate - Considerable weight for a true \u201cbarefoot shoe\u201d - Toe pockets that do not fit with non-standard feet - Considerable size and thickness, in particular in the heel section of the protective sole for a true \u201cbarefoot shoe\u201d - Positive drop and therefore a change in the biomechanics compared to barefoot running. We wanted to design a new type of shoe that would be as close as possible to \u201creal\u201d barefoot running\u201d and thereby overcome one or several of these perceived deficiencies. Whether this would lead to a reduction or increase in running related injuries and how to best train with the new shoes is not within the scope of this article.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/495/', ['Public Health'], [u'Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute']]
[u'Transferability and scaling of soil total carbon prediction models in Florida', ['Sabine Grunwald', 'Congrong Yu', 'Xiong Xiong'], u'2014-09-10', u'The applicability, transfer, and scalability of visible/near-infrared (VNIR)-derived soil models are still poorly understood. The objectives of this study in Florida, U.S. were to: (i) compare three methods to predict soil total carbon (TC) using five fields (local scale) and a pooled (regional scale) VNIR spectral dataset, (ii) assess the model\u2019s transferability among fields, and (iii) evaluate the up- and down-scaling behavior of TC prediction models. A total of 560 TC-spectral sets were modeled by Partial Least Square Regression (PLSR), Support Vector Machine (SVM), and Random Forest. The transferability and up- and down-scaling of models were limited by the following factors: (i) the spectral data domain, (ii) soil attribute domain, (iii) methods that describe the internal model structure of VNIR-TC relationships, and (iv) environmental domain space of attributes that control soil carbon dynamics. All soil logTC models showed excellent performance based on all three methods with R2 > 0.86, bias < 0.01%, root mean square prediction error (RMSE) = 0.09%, residual predication deviation (RPD) > 2.70% , and ratio of prediction error to inter-quartile range (RPIQ) > 4.54. PLSR performed substantially better than SVM to scale and transfer models. Upscaled soil TC models performed somewhat better in terms of model fit (R2), RPD, and RPIQ, whereas downscaled models showed less bias and smaller RMSE based on PLSR. Given the many factors that can impinge on empirically derived soil spectral prediction models, as demonstrated by this study, more focus on the applicability and scaling of them is needed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/494/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Soil Science'], [u'Soil and Water Science Department, University of Florida', u'Colllege of Hydrology and Water Resource, Hohai University']]
[u'Arterial spin labeling versus BOLD in pharmacological fMRI', ['Stephanie Stewart', 'Jonathan Koller', 'Meghan Campbell', 'Kevin Black'], u'2014-09-09', u'A carefully controlled study allowed us to compare the sensitivity of ASL (arterial spin labeling) and BOLD (blood oxygen level dependent) fMRI for detecting the effects of the adenosine A2a antagonist tozadenant in Parkinson disease . Only ASL detected the direct effect of tozadenant. BOLD was more sensitive to a cognitive task, which (unlike most drugs) allows on-off comparisons over short periods of time. Neither ASL nor BOLD could detect a cognitive-pharmacological interaction. These results are consistent with the known relative advantages of each fMRI method, and suggest that for drug development, directly imaging pharmacodynamic effects with ASL may have advantages over cognitive-pharmacological interaction BOLD, which has hitherto been the more common approach to pharmacological fMRI.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/493/', ['Neuroscience', 'Neurology'], [u'Psychiatry, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Neurology, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Radiology, Washington University School of Medicine', u'Anatomy and Neurobiology, Washington University School of Medicine']]
[u'Using Encyclopedia of Life\u2019s TraitBank to identify plant traits associated with vulnerability', ['Iain R. Caldwell', 'Edmund M. Hart'], u'2014-09-08', u'Certain biological traits seem to predispose some species to greater extinction risk than others and, when vulnerability information is limited, could be used as proxies to identify understudied species likely in need of protection. In the past, identifying broadly applicable traits associated with extinction risk has been hampered by the difficulty of collecting information for a broad range of species (both geographically and taxonomically), with most comparative analyses focusing on regional and/or taxon specific patterns. However, efforts to collect and compile existing trait information from regional and taxon specific datasets into a single repository are making it possible to analyze patterns between traits and vulnerability on ever broader scales. We compared trait information from one such repository, the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL) TraitBank, to information on threat status from the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List to determine whether such consolidated data can help either clarify previously identified associations or identify new associations between plant traits and threat risk. Using generalized linear mixed effects models (GLMM\u2019s) we found five plant traits that could be used to predict whether a species is threatened or not: \u2018plant growth form\u2019, \u2018life cycle habit\u2019, \u2018low temperature tolerance\u2019, \u2018soil depth\u2019 and \u2018foliage porosity in winter\u2019. Threatened plant species tend to be trees rather than shrubs or grasses, live for more than one season (i.e. perennials), be less tolerant of cold temperatures, require deep soil for good growth, and have less dense foliage in the winter. Both \u2018plant growth form\u2019 and \u2018life cycle habit\u2019 have been identified as correlates of vulnerability in past studies and both are relatively easy to use as diagnostic characters, which is ideal for identifying understudied species of potential conservation concern. However, how these two traits relate to vulnerability seems context dependent, with opposite relationships in past regional or taxon specific studies. Unfortunately we could not identify further traits that could add explanatory power to those relationships with the existing data on EOL\u2019s TraitBank but the repository is still growing and the inclusion of additional traits and/or species from other datasets could clarify these relationships further.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/491/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii at Manoa', u'National Ecological Observatory Network']]
[u'Long-term effects of the antibacterial agent triclosan on marine periphyton communities', ['Martin Eriksson', 'Henrik Johansson', 'Viktor Fihlman', 'Alexander Grehn', 'Kemal Sanli', 'Mats X Andersson', 'Hans Blanck', 'Asa Arrhenius', 'Triranta Sircar', 'Thomas Backhaus'], u'2014-09-06', u'Triclosan (TCS) is a widely used antibacterial agent that has become a ubiquitous contaminant in freshwater, estuary and marine environments. Concerns for potential adverse effects of TCS have been described in several recent risk assessments. Effects on freshwater microbial communities have been quite well studied but studies addressing effects on marine microbial communities are scarce. Here we describe short- and long-term effects of TCS on marine periphyton (microbial biofilm) communities. Short-term effects on photosynthesis were estimated after 60 \u2013 210 minutes exposure. Long-term effects on photosynthesis, chlorophyll fluorescence, pigment content, community tolerance and bacterial carbon utilization were studied after exposing periphyton for 17 days in flow-through microcosms to 0.316 - 10 000 nM TCS. Results from the short-term studies show that TCS is toxic to periphyton photosynthesis. EC50 values of 1080 and 3000 nM were estimated using 14CO2-incorporation and Pulse Amplitude Modulation (PAM), respectively. After long-term TCS exposure in flow-through microcosms photosynthesis estimated using PAM was, however, not inhibited by TCS concentrations up to 1000 nM, but instead increased with increasing TCS concentration. Similarly, the amount of photosynthetic pigments increased after an exposure of 31.6 nM TCS and higher; at 316 nM TCS the pigment amounts reached between 140 and 190% of the control level. Pollution-Induced Community Tolerance (PICT) was observed for algae and cyanobacteria at 100 nM TCS and higher. In spite of the widespread use of TCS as an antibacterial agent, the compound did not have any effects on bacterial carbon utilization after long-term exposure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/489/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Toxicology'], [u'Department of Shipping and Marine Technology, Chalmers University of Technology', u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, Univetrsity of Gothenburg']]
[u'Advances and limits of using population genetics to understand local adaptation', ['Peter Tiffin', 'Jeffrey Ross-Ibarra'], u'2014-09-05', u'Local adaptation is an important process shaping within species diversity. In recent years, population genetic analyses, which complement organismal approaches in advancing our understanding of local adaptation have become widespread. Here we focus on using population genetics to address some key questions in local adaptation: What traits are involved? What environmental variables are most important? Does local adaptation target the same genes in related species? Do loci responsible for local adaptation exhibit tradeoffs across environments? After discussing these questions we highlight important limitations to population genetic analyses including challenges with obtaining high quality data, deciding which loci are targets of selection, and limits to identifying the genetic basis of local adaptation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/488/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics'], [u'Department of Plant Biology, University of Minnesota', u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California, Davis']]
[u'Placental vascular pathology and increased thrombin generation as mechanisms of disease in obstetrical syndromes', ['Salvatore Andrea Mastrolia', 'Moshe Mazor', 'Giuseppe Loverro', 'Vered Klaitman', 'Offer Erez'], u'2014-09-04', u'Obstetrical complications including preeclampsia, fetal growth restriction, preterm labor, preterm prelabor rupture of membranes and fetal demise are all the clinical endpoint of several underlying mechanisms (i.e. infection inflammation, thrombosis, endocrine disorder, immunologic rejection, genetic, and environmental), therefore, they may be regarded as syndromes. Placental vascular pathology and increased thrombin generation were reported in all of these obstetrical syndromes. Moreover, elevated concentrations of thrombin-anti-thrombin III complexes and changes in the coagulation as well as anticoagulation factors can be detected in the maternal circulation prior to the clinical development of the disease in some of these syndromes. In this review, we will assess the changes in the hemostatic system during normal and complicated pregnancy in maternal blood, maternal-fetal interface and amniotic fluid, and describe the contribution of thrombosis and vascular pathology to the development of the great obstetrical syndromes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/487/', ['Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Hematology'], [u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Policlinico di Bari, School of Medicine, University of Bari "Aldo Moro"', u'Obstetrics and Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion University of the Negev', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Policlinico di Bari, School of Medicine, University of Bari']]
[u'The physiologic and therapeutic role of Heparin in implantation and placentation', ['Michela Quaranta', 'Offer Erez', 'Salvatore Andrea Mastrolia', 'Arie Koifman', 'Elad Leron', 'Tamar Eshkoli', 'Moshe Mazor', 'Gershon Holcberg'], u'2014-09-04', u'Implantation, trophoblast development and placentation are crucial processes in the establishment and development of normal pregnancy. Abnormalities of these processes can lead to pregnancy complications named the great obstetrical syndromes (preeclampsia, intrauterine growth restriction, fetal demise, premature prelabor rupture or membranes, preterm labor, and recurrent pregnancy loss). There is mounting evidence regarding the physiological and therapeutic role of heparins in the establishment of normal gestation and as a modality for treatment and prevention of pregnancy complications. In this review we will summarize the properties and the physiological contribute of heparins to the success of implantation and placentation and normal pregnancy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/486/', ['Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Immunology'], [u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria Integrata - Universit\xe0 degli Studi di Verona', u'Obstetrics and Gynecology, Soroka University Medical Center, Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben Gurion University of the Negev', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Policlinico di Bari, School of Medicine, University of Bari "Aldo Moro"']]
[u'Effects of mobile phone radiation on heart rate: a radiation-detector controlled pilot study', ['Suzanne Roggeveen', 'Jim van Os', 'Johan Gielissen', 'Ron Mengelers', 'Klaus Golombeck', 'Richel Lousberg'], u'2014-09-04', u'Objectives: To investigate to what degree radiofrequency electromagnetic radiation, induced by a mobile phone placed on the chest, impacts cardiac rhythm. Design: n=1, single blinded pilot study Setting: Academic hospital, Maastricht, the Netherlands Participants: One healthy female 24 years old participant. Interventions: The participant underwent four experimental sessions, spread over four days. A session consisted of four consecutive 15 minute conditions, three with a sham phone and one with a dialling mobile phone. The participant was blind for the condition. During each condition, per-millisecond electrocardiac activity (lead V4) and radiofrequency radiation was recorded jointly. Primary outcome measure: Heart rate. The association with radiation was analysed at two levels, (i) at macrolevel, based on averaged condition effects, and (ii) at microlevel, focusing on radiation peak-related effects within the exposure condition. Results: The macrolevel analysis clearly indicated that heart rate was lowered during the radiation exposure condition. The heart rate during the preceding and subsequent sham phone condition was respectively 1.014 beats/minute (p < 0.001) and 1.009 beats/minute (p < 0.001) higher compared to the radiation exposure condition. In order to conduct radiation-detector controlled microlevel analyses, 142 critical segments were identified, in which a radiation-free period was followed by a radiation peak. The heart rate during the radiation-free period showed a mean increase, whereas the radiation peak period was associated with a mean decrease in heart rate (time*period interaction: p=0.001). Thus, the macrolevel finding was confirmed at microlevel. Conclusions: Mobile phone radiation may impact heart rate, suggesting urgent further study to assess physiological safety parameters.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/485/', ['Public Health', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Maastricht University', u'Department of Psychiatry and Psychology, Maastricht University Medical Centre', u'King\u2019s College London, King\u2019s Health Partners, Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry', u'Department of Instrumentation, Faculty of Psychology and Neuroscience, Maastricht University']]
[u'The simplest mathematical model of consciousness', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2014-09-02', u"Adaptation of the Arrhenius relation to cognitive process explains how an order of magnitude difference in the rate of metabolic free energy metabolism for neural tissues translates into many orders of magnitude increase in the rate of assembling sets of cognitive submodules into the temporary, tunable, 'global workspace' coalitions of consciousness, much faster than such closely analogous processes as wound healing, immune response, and gene expression. The model strongly contradicts Tononi's 'panpsychic' integrated information treatment of consciousness.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/484/', ['Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Heterotrophic and mixotrophic cultivation of Chlorella pyrenoidosa and the enzymatic hydrolysis of its biomass for the synthesis of third generation bioethanol', ['Nisha Phour Dhull', 'Kshitiz Gupta', 'Sanjeev Kumar Soni'], u'2014-09-02', u'The present study has been carried out with a view of evaluating a green alga Chlorella pyrenoidosa as a potential candidate for the production of reducing sugars using an enzyme cocktail of multiple carbohydrates produced on site for the fermentation into bioethanol.   The ability of  C. pyrenoidosa  to grow similarly fast on different carbon sources and light has been studied in Fog\u2019s medium in heterotrophic and mixotrophic cultures. The high cells densities of mixotrophic cultures demonstrated that the growth-stimulating effects of light and carbon utilization were better as compared to the effects of glucose in heterotrophic condition. Maximum biomass yield of 1.2 g/l was achieved with 1% Glucose and 0.2% KNO3 after 7 days of incubation at 28oC. The algal biomass was steam pretreated and hydrolyzed by a cocktail of multiple carbohydrases produced by solid state culture of a laboratory isolate belonging to Aspergillus sp. on wheat bran exhibiting the yields of 86, 35, 74, 1947, 61, 17000 and 1388 IU/g dry wheat bran for CMCase, FPase, \u03b2-glucosidase, xylanase, mannanase, \u03b1-amylase and glucoamylase respectively. The enzyme cocktail worked well in the hydrolysis of algal biomass at 50oC and produced total reducing sugars amounting to 429 mg/g of dried biomass revealing carbohydrate conversion efficiency of 96% after 48 h of hydrolysis. The released sugars may be fermented using suitable yeast strains for the production of third generation bioethanol.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/483/', ['Microbiology'], [u'Microbiology, Panjab University']]
[u'Self-regulation (locomotion and assessment), well-being (subjective and psychological), and exercise behavior (frequency and intensity) in relation to high school pupils\u2019 academic achievement', ['Danilo Garcia', 'Alexander Jimmefors', 'Fariba Mousavi', 'Lillemor Adrianson', 'Patricia Rosenberg', 'Trevor Archer'], u'2014-09-02', u'Background: Self-regulation is the procedure implemented by an individual striving to reach a goal and consists of two inter-related strategies: assessment and locomotion. Moreover, both subjective and psychological well-being along exercise behavior might also play a role on adolescents academic achievement.\nMethod: Participants were 160 Swedish high school pupils (111 boys and 49 girls) with an age mean of 17.74 (sd = 1.29). We used the Assessment and Locomotion Scales to measure self-regulation; Ryff\u2019s Psychological Well-Being Scales short version, the Temporal Satisfaction with Life Scale, and the Positive Affect and Negative Affect Schedule to measure well-being and the Archer Ratio to measure exercise behavior. Academic achievement was operationalized through pupils\u2019 the mean value of final grades in Swedish, Mathematics, English, and Physical Education.\nResults: Academic achievement was positively associated to assessment, subjective well-being, and frequent/intensive exercise behaviour. Assessment was, however, negatively related to subjective well-being. Locomotion on the other hand was positively associated to subjective and psychological well-being and also to exercise behaviour.\nConclusions: Here we propose a dual (in)direct approach to increase pupils\u2019 academic achievement and well-being\u2014locomotion being related to frequently exercising and well-being, in turn, increasing academic achievement; while assessment being directly related to higher academic achievement.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/219/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Centre for Ethics, Law and Mental Health, University of Gothenburg', u'Network for Empowerment and Well-Being, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Psychology, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Pedagogy and Behavioral Sciences, University of Bor\xe5s']]
[u'Efficient algorithms for sampling feasible sets of abundance distributions', ['Kenneth J. Locey', 'Daniel J. McGlinn'], u'2014-08-30', u'Ecological variables such as species richness (S) and total abundance (N) can strongly influence ecological patterns. For example, the general form of the species abundance distribution (SAD) can often be explained by the majority of possible forms having the same N and S, i.e. the SAD feasible set. The feasible set reveals how variables determine observable variation, whether empirical patterns are exceptional to the majority of possible forms, and provides a constraint-based explanation for the ubiquity of hollow-curve SADs in nature. However, use of the feasible set has been limited to inefficient sampling algorithms that prevent large ecological communities and ecologically realistic combinations of N and S from being examined. This is the primary hindrance to using this otherwise novel perspective and theoretical framework. We developed efficient computational algorithms to generate random samples of the feasible set for the SAD and similar discrete distributions of abundance, including those that allow for zero-values, e.g., absences. We provide Python and R based implementations of our algorithms and tools for testing and using them. Our algorithms are often several orders of magnitude faster than a long-standing and recently used approach. This greatly increases the size and diversity of communities that can be examined with the feasible set approach and thus advances progress using constraint-based approaches to decipher ecological patterns.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/78/', ['Biodiversity', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Biology, Utah State University', u'Department of Biology and The Ecology Center, Utah State University']]
[u'Culture-independent detection and characterisation of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and M. africanum in sputum samples using shotgun metagenomics on a benchtop sequencer', ['Emma L Doughty', 'Martin J Sergeant', 'Ifedayo M.O Adetifa', 'Martin Antonio', 'Mark J Pallen'], u'2014-08-30', u'Tuberculosis remains a major global health problem. Laboratory diagnostic methods that allow effective, early detection of cases are central to management of tuberculosis in the individual patient and in the community. Since the 1880s, laboratory diagnosis of tuberculosis has relied primarily on microscopy and culture. However, microscopy fails to provide species- or lineage-level identification and culture-based workflows for diagnosis of tuberculosis remain complex, expensive, slow, technically demanding and poorly able to handle mixed infections. We therefore explored the potential of shotgun metagenomics, sequencing of DNA from samples without culture or target-specific amplification or capture, to detect and characterise strains from the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex in smear-positive sputum samples obtained from The Gambia in West Africa. Eight smear- and culture-positive sputum samples were investigated using a differential-lysis protocol followed by a kit-based DNA extraction method, with sequencing performed on a benchtop sequencing instrument, the Illumina MiSeq. The number of sequence reads in each sputum-derived metagenome ranged from 989,442 to 2,818,238. The proportion of reads in each metagenome mapping against the human genome ranged from 20% to 99%. We were able to detect sequences from the M. tuberculosis complex in all eight samples, with coverage of the H37Rv reference genome ranging from 0.002X to 0.7X. By analysing the distribution of large sequence polymorphisms (deletions and the locations of the insertion element IS6110) and single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), we were able to assign seven of eight metagenome-derived genomes to a species and lineage within the M. tuberculosis complex. Two metagenome-derived mycobacterial genomes were assigned to M. africanum, a species largely confined to West Africa; the others that could be assigned belonged to lineages T, H or LAM within the clade of \u201cmodern\u201d M. tuberculosis strains. We have provided proof of principle that shotgun metagenomics can be used to detect and characterise M. tuberculosis sequences from sputum samples without culture or target-specific amplification or capture, using an accessible benchtop-sequencing platform, the Illumina MiSeq, and relatively simple DNA extraction, sequencing and bioinformatics protocols. In our hands, sputum metagenomics does not yet deliver sufficient depth of coverage to allow sequence-based sensitivity testing; it remains to be determined whether improvements in DNA extraction protocols alone can deliver this or whether culture, capture or amplification steps will be required. Nonetheless, we can foresee a tipping point when a unified automated metagenomics-based workflow might start to compete with the plethora of methods currently in use in the diagnostic microbiology laboratory.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/482/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Respiratory Medicine'], [u'Microbiology and Infection Unit, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick', u'Disease Control and Elimination Theme, Medical Research Council Unit', u'Vaccinology, Medical Research Council Unit']]
[u'Prior mating success can affect allocation towards future sexual signaling in crickets', ['Rachel Chiswell', 'Madeline Girard', 'Claudia Fricke', 'Michael Kasumovic'], u'2014-08-30', u'Fitness is often correlated with the expression level of a sexually selected trait. However, sexually selected traits are costly to express such that investment in their expression should be optimised to maximize their overall fitness gains. Social interactions, in the form of successful and unsuccessful matings, may offer males one type of feedback allowing them to gauge how to allocate their resources towards sexual signalling. Here we tested whether adult male black field crickets (Teleogryllus commodus) modify the extent of their calling effort (the sexually selected trait) in response to successful and unsuccessful matings with females. To examine the effect that mating interactions with females have on investment into sexual signalling, we monitored male calling effort after maturation and then provided males with a female at two points within their life, manipulating whether or not males were able to successfully mate each time. Our results demonstrate that males alter their investment towards sexual signalling in response to successful matings, but only if the experience occurs early their life. Males that mated early in their life decreased their calling effort sooner than males that were denied a mating. Our results demonstrate that social feedback in the form of successful and unsuccessful matings has the potential to alter the effort a male places in sexual signalling.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/481/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Evolution & Ecology Research Centre, UNSW Australia', u'Department of Environmental Science, Policy and Management, University of California, Berkeley', u'Institute for Evolution and Biodiversity, University of Muenster']]
[u'Psychosocial determinants of antenatal anxiety and depression in Pakistan: Is social support a mediator?', ['Ahmed Waqas', 'Nahal Raza', 'Haneen Wajid Lodhi', 'Zerwah Muhammad', 'Mehak Jamal', 'Abdul Rehman Suleman'], u'2014-08-29', u'Introduction:  Pregnancy is generally viewed as a time of fulfillment and joy; however, for many women it can be a stressful event. In South Asia it is associated with cultural stigmas revolving around gender discrimination, abnormal births and genetic abnormalities. It is also associated with several psychiatric problems in women, most notably depression and anxiety.\nMethodology:  This cross-sectional study was done at four teaching hospitals in Lahore from February, 2014 to June, 2014. A total of 500 pregnant women seen at hospital obstetrics and gynecology departments were interviewed with a questionnaire consisting of three sections: demographics, the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS) and the Social Provisions Scale (SPS). All data were analyzed with SPSS v. 20. Descriptive statistics were analyzed for demographic variables. Pearson\u2019s chi-squared test, bivariate correlations and multiple linear regression were used to analyze associations between the independent variables and scores on the HADS and SPS.\nResults:  Mean age among the 500 respondents was 27.41 years (5.65). Anxiety levels in participants were categorized as normal (145 women, 29%), borderline (110, 22%) or anxious (245, 49%). Depression levels were categorized as normal (218 women, 43.6%), borderline (123, 24.6%) or depressed (159, 31.8%). Inferential analysis revealed that higher HADS scores were significantly associated with lower scores on the SPS, rural background, history of harassment, abortion, cesarean delivery and unplanned pregnancies (P < .05). Social support (SPS score) mediated the relationship between the total number of children, gender of previous children and HADS score. Women with more daughters were significantly more likely to score higher on the HADS and lower on the SPS, whereas higher numbers of sons were associated with the opposite trends in the scores (P < .05)\nConclusion:  Because of the predominantly patriarchal sociocultural context in Pakistan, the predictors of antenatal anxiety and depression may differ from those in developed countries. Rural women and working women had higher levels of antenatal anxiety and depression, which contradicts earlier findings in western countries. Our study found that higher numbers of daughters were associated with higher levels of depression and anxiety, whereas sons had a protective influence. We therefore suggest that interventions designed and implemented to reduce antenatal anxiety and depression should take into account these unique factors operating in developing countries and patriarchal societies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/463/', ['Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', "Women's Health"], [u'CMH Lahore Medical College and Institue of Dentistry', u'Allama Iqbal Medical College']]
[u'Morphometric analysis of feedforward pathways from the primary somatosensory area (S1) of rats', ['Andrea Lima de Sa', 'Vania Castro Correa', 'Carlomagno Pacheco Bahia', 'Ivanira Dias', 'Walace Gomes Leal', 'Andre Luis Santos Pinho', 'Jean-Christophe Houzel', 'Cristovam Wanderley Picanco Diniz', 'Antonio Pereira'], u'2014-08-29', u'In this report, we used biotinylated dextran amine to anterogradely label individual axons projecting from primary somatosensory cortex (S1) to four cortical areas in rats, namely the secondary somatosensory (S2), the parietal ventral (PV), the perirhinal (PR), and the contralateral S1 (S1c). A major goal was to determine whether axon terminals could be classified on the basis of morphological criteria, such as the shape and density of boutons, and the shape and size of individual terminal arbors. Evidence from reconstruction of isolated axon terminal fragments (n=111) supported a degree of morphological heterogeneity. In particular, morphological parameters associated with the complexity of terminal arbors and the proportion of beaded, en passant boutons (Bp) vs. stalked boutons terminaux (Bt) were found to differ significantly. Two broad groups could be established following a discriminant function analysis across axon fragments. Both groups occurred in all four target areas, possibly consistent with a commonality of presynaptic processing of tactile information in these areas. However, more work is needed to investigate synaptic function at the single bouton level and see how this might be associated with emerging properties in the postsynaptic targets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/480/', ['Neuroscience', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Brain Institute, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte', u'Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Par\xe1', u'Institute of Health Sciences, Federal University of Par\xe1', u'Department of Statistics, Federal University of Rio Grande do Norte', u'Institute of Biomedical Sciences, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro']]
[u'Spatial genetic structure across a hybrid zone between European rabbit subspecies', ['Fernando Alda', 'Ignacio Doadrio'], u'2014-08-27', u'The Iberian Peninsula is the only region in the world where the two existing subspecies of the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus) naturally occur and hybridize. In this study we explore the relative roles of historical and contemporary processes in shaping the spatial genetic structure of the rabbit across its native distribution range, and how they differently affect each subspecies and the hybrid zone. For that purpose multilocus genotypes and mitochondrial DNA data were obtained for 771 rabbits across most of the species\u2019 distribution range in Spain. Nuclear markers defined a hierarchical genetic structure firstly comprised by two genetic groups, largely congruent with the mitochondrial lineages and subspecies distributions (O. c. algirus and O. c. cuniculus), which were subsequently subdivided into seven genetic groups probably shaped by environmental or ecological factors. Geographic distance alone emerged as an important factor explaining genetic differentiation across the whole range, without the need to invoke for the effect for geographical barriers. Thus, when considering the overall genetic structure, differences at a local level seem to be of greater importance. The significantly positive spatial correlation up to a distance of only 100 km supported this hypothesis. However, northern populations of O. c. cuniculus showed more spatial genetic structure and differentiation than O. c. algirus, which could be due to local geographic barriers, limited resources, soil type and/or social behaviours limiting dispersal. The hybrid zone showed similar genetic structure to the southern populations but a larger introgression from the northern lineage genome. These differences have been attributed to selection against the hybrids rather than to behavioural differences between subspecies. Ultimately, the genetic structure of the rabbit in its native distribution range is the result of an ensemble of factors, from geographical and ecological, to behavioural and molecular, that hierarchically interact in time and space.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/479/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Center for Bioenvironmental Research, Tulane University', u'Dpto. Biodiversidad y Biolog\xeda Evolutiva, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales, CSIC']]
[u'Removal of corallivorous snails as a proactive conservation tool', ['Dana E Williams', 'Margaret W Miller', 'Allan J Bright', 'Caitlin M Cameron'], u'2014-08-27', u'Corallivorous snail feeding is a common source of tissue loss for the threatened coral Acropora palmata, accounting for roughly one-quarter of tissue loss in monitored study plots over seven years. However, corallivory by Coralliophila abbreviata is one of the few major sources of partial mortality (contrasting with threats such as bleaching, disease, or storm disturbances) that may be locally managed. We conducted a field experiment to explore the effectiveness and feasibility of snail removal. Long-term monitoring plots on six reefs in the upper Florida Keys were assigned to one of three removal treatments: 1) removal from A. palmata only, 2) removal from all host coral species, or 3) no-removal controls. During the initial removal in June 2011, 639 snails were removed from twelve 150 m2 plots. Snails were removed two additional times during a seven month \u201cremoval phase\u201d, then counted at five surveys over the next 19 months to track recolonization. At the conclusion, snails were collected, measured, and sexed. Before-After-Control-Impact analysis revealed that both snail abundance and feeding scar prevalence were reduced in removal treatments compared to the control, but there was no difference between removal treatments. Recolonization by snails to baseline abundance is estimated to be 4.3 years and did not differ between removal treatments. Recolonization rate was significantly correlated with baseline snail abundance. Maximum snail size decreased from 47.0 mm to 34.6 mm in the removal treatments. The effort required to remove snails from A. palmata was 30 diver minutes per 150 m2 plot, compared with 51 minutes to remove snails from all host corals. Since there was no additional benefit observed with removing snails from all host species, removals can be more efficiently focused on only A. palmata colonies, and in areas where C. abbreviata abundance is high, to effectively conserve A. palmata in targeted areas.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/478/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Cooperative Institute for Marine and Atmospheric Studies, Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami', u'Southeast Fisheries Science Center, NOAA-National Marine Fisheries Service']]
[u'A Biologist\u2019s Guide to Impact Factors', ['Michael S Rosenberg'], u'2014-08-26', u'Personal impact factors (e.g., the h-index) are becoming more and more important in evaluations of faculty with respect to job hiring, promotion, and tenure, but they are largely poorly understood by the community at large. The purpose of this study is to educate biologist and other scientists about some of the wide literature about impact factors, including highlighting their strengths and weaknesses. This includes a thorough exploration of dozens of such indices by comparing how they perform through repeated calculation of data representing 15 years of scientific output of a single individual from beginning through mid-career. Indices are examined with respect to factors such as interpretability, consistency, and stability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/477/', ['Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Life Sciences, Arizona State Universiy']]
[u'Differences in healthcare expenditures for inflammatory bowel disease by insurance status, income, and clinical care setting', ['Michelle Park', 'Jay Bhattacharya', 'KT Park'], u'2014-08-26', u'Background: Socioeconomic factors and insurance status have not been correlated with differential use of healthcare services in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Aim: To describe IBD-related expenditures based on insurance and household income with the use of inpatient, outpatient, emergency, and office-based services, and prescribed medications in the United States (US). Methods: We evaluated the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey from 1996 to 2011 of individuals with Crohn\u2019s disease (CD) or ulcerative colitis (UC). Nationally weighted means, proportions, and multivariate regression models examined the relationships between income and insurance status with expenditures. Results: Annual per capita mean expenditures for CD, UC, and all IBD were $10,364 (N=238), $7,827 (N=95), and $9,528, respectively, significantly higher than non-IBD ($4,314, N=276,372, p<0.05). Publicly insured patients incurred the highest costs ($18,067), over privately insured ($8,014, p<0.05) or uninsured patients ($5,129, p<0.05). Among all IBD patients, inpatient care composed the highest proportion of costs ($3,392, p<0.05). Inpatient costs were disproportionately higher for publicly insured patients. Public insurance had higher odds of total costs than private (OR 2.13, CI 1.08-4.19) or no insurance (OR 4.94, CI 1.26-19.47), with increased odds for inpatient and emergency care. Private insurance had higher costs associated with outpatient care, office-based care, and prescribed medicines. Low-income patients had lower costs associated with outpatient (OR 0.38, CI 0.15-0.95) and office-based care (OR 0.21, CI 0.07-0.62). Conclusions: In the US, high inpatient utilization among publicly insured patients is a previously unrecognized driver of high IBD costs. Bridging this health services gap between SES strata for acute care services may curtail direct IBD-related costs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/476/', ['Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Health Policy'], [u'School of Medicine, Stanford University', u'Departments of Medicine and Economics, Center for Health Policy/Primary Care Outcomes Research, Stanford University', u'Division of Pediatric Gastroenterology, Department of Pediatrics; Center for Health Policy/Primary Care Outcomes Research, Stanford University']]
[u'Fibrochondrogenic potential of synoviocytes from osteoarthritic and normal joints cultured as tensioned bioscaffolds for meniscal tissue engineering in dogs', ['Jennifer J Warnock', 'Gerd Bobe', 'Katja F. Duesterdieck-Zellmer'], u'2014-08-26', u'Meniscal tears are a common cause of stifle lameness in dogs. Use of autologous synoviocytes from the affected stifle is an attractive cell source for tissue engineering replacement fibrocartilage. However, the diseased state of these cells may impede in vitro fibrocartilage formation. Synoviocytes from 12 osteoarthritic (\u201coaTSB\u201d) and 6 normal joints (\u201cnTSB\u201d) were cultured as tensioned bioscaffolds and compared for their ability to synthesize fibrocartilage sheets. Gene expression of collagens type I and II were higher and expression of interleukin-6 was lower in oaTSB versus nTSB. Compared with nTSB, oaTSB had more glycosaminoglycan and alpha smooth muscle staining and less collagen I and II staining on histologic analysis, whereas collagen and glycosaminoglycan quantities were similar. In conclusion, osteoarthritic joint-origin synoviocytes can produce extracellular matrix components of meniscal fibrocartilage at similar levels to normal joint-origin synoviocytes, which makes them a potential cell source for canine meniscal tissue engineering.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/475/', ['Bioengineering', 'Cell Biology', 'Veterinary Medicine', 'Orthopedics'], [u'Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Oregon State University', u'Linus Pauling Institute and Department of Rangeland Sciences, Oregon State University']]
[u'Heterochronic shifts in germband movements contribute to the rapid embryonic development of the coffin fly Megaselia scalaris', ['Karl R Wotton'], u'2014-08-26', u'The coffin fly, Megaselia scalaris, is a species of medical and forensic importance and is increasingly being used for the study of genetics. Postmortem interval can be estimated based on the life stage of M. scalaris recovered from corpses, therefore many studies have addressed the duration of each life stage. These studies demonstrate that embryogenesis completes significantly faster in M. scalaris than in the congener Megaselia abdita and faster even than the 24 hours needed for Drosophila melanogaster embryogenesis. However, until now it has been unclear if this increased speed is achieved by reducing developmental time across all embryonic stages or by the acceleration of individual stages and processes. Here I use time-lapse imaging to create a staging scheme for M. scalaris embryogenesis. Comparison of stages between D. melanogaster and both Megaselia species reveals that heterochronic shifts, simultaneous morphogenetic movements and compression of individual stages all contribute to the rapid development of M. scalaris.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/205/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'EMBL/CRG Research Unit in Systems Biology, Centre for Genomic Regulation (CRG)', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra (UPF)']]
[u'Retaining the double dimension of species diversity: Application of partially ordered set theory and Hasse diagrams', ['Christian Kampichler', 'Ralf Wieland'], u'2014-08-26', u'The measurement of species diversity has been a central task of community ecology from the mid 20th century onward. The conventional method of designing a diversity index is to combine values for species richness and assemblage evenness into a single composite score. The literature abounds with such indices. Each index weights richness and evenness in a different fashion. The conventional approach has repeatedly been criticized since there is an infinite number of potential indices which have a minimum value when S (species richness) = 1 and a maximum value when S = N (number of individuals). We argue that partial order theory is a sound mathematical fundament and demonstrate that it is an attractive alternative for comparing and ranking biological diversity without the necessity of combining values for species richness and evenness into an ambiguous diversity index. The general principle of partial ordering is simple: one particular assemblage is regarded as more diverse than another when both its species richness and its evenness are higher. Assemblages are not comparable with each other when one has a higher value for species richness and a lower value for evenness. Hasse diagrams can graphically represent partially ordered communities. Linear extensions and rank-frequency distributions reveal the potential of partial order theory as a means to support decisions when assemblage ranking is desired.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/474/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Sovon Dutch Centre for Field Ornithology', u'Divisi\xf3n Acad\xe9mica de Ciencias Biol\xf3gicas, Universidad Ju\xe1rez Aut\xf3noma de Tabasco', u'Institut f\xfcr Landschaftssystemanalyse, ZALF Leibniz-Zentrum f\xfcr Agrarlandschaftsforschung']]
[u'Building an ecological knowledge of virtual worlds', ['Pierre-Olivier Montiglio', 'Julien Cere'], u'2014-08-25', u'Virtual worlds supporting massively multiplayer games have become so complex that they exhibit temporal and spatial dynamics mostly driven by interactions between players. In this respect, virtual worlds resemble closely natural ecosystems. Studying the ecology of virtual worlds is an outstanding opportunity for ecologists as well as the game industry to collaborate in order to test several aspects of ecological theory difficult to study in nature, and build manageable, resilient virtual worlds.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/473/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Environmental Science & Policy, University of California at Davis', u'Sciences Biologiques, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Montr\xe9al']]
[u'Ancient pheromone blend as an alternative for copulation in internally fertilizing salamanders', ['Ines Van Bocxlaer', 'Dag Treer', 'Margo Maex', 'Wim Vandebergh', 'Sunita Janssenswillen', 'Gwij Stegen', 'Philippe J. R. Kok', 'Bert Willaert', 'Severine Matthijs', 'Erik Martens', 'Anneleen Mortier', 'Henri De Greve', 'Paul Proost', 'Franky Bossuyt'], u'2014-08-25', u'Throughout the animal kingdom, internal fertilization - the merging of sperm and egg inside the female body - nearly invariably relies on the use of a copulatory organ. In contrast, males of advanced salamanders (Salamandroidea) attain internal fertilization by depositing a spermatophore on the substrate in the environment, which females subsequently take up with their cloaca. The aquatically reproducing modern Eurasian newts (Salamandridae) have taken this to extremes, since the majority does not display physical contact between the sexes and largely rely on females following the male track at spermatophore deposition. Although the use of pheromones has been widely assumed during their courtship, molecules able to induce the female following behaviour that culminates in insemination have not been identified. Here we show that uncleaved glycosylated SPF protein pheromones, secreted during courtship, are sufficient to elicit such behaviour in palmate newts (Lissotriton h. helveticus), indicating that these molecules obviate the need for copulation in these salamanders. Surprisingly, our finding of side-by-side secretion of Late Palaeozoic diverged proteins in a single species suggests that these molecules already had a courtship function in stem salamanders about 300 million years ago, rendering them one of the oldest vertebrate pheromone systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/457/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Amphibian Evolution Lab, Vrije Universiteit Brussel', u'Laboratory of Immunobiology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Rega Institute, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven', u'Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Rega Institut, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (K.U. Leuven)', u'Structural and Molecular Microbiology, VIB Department of Structural Biology, VIB', u'Structural Biology Brussels, Vrije Universiteit Brussel', u'Laboratory of Molecular Immunology, Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Rega Institut, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven (KULeuven)']]
[u'Error estimates for the analysis of differential expression from RNA-seq count data', ['Conrad Burden', 'Sumaira Qureshi', 'Susan R Wilson'], u'2014-08-25', u'A number of algorithms exist for analysing RNA-sequencing data to infer profiles of differential gene expression. Problems inherent in building algorithms around statistical models of over dispersed count data are formidable and frequently lead to non-uniform p-value distributions for null-hypothesis data and to inaccurate estimates of false discovery rates (FDRs). This can lead to an inaccurate measure of significance and loss of power to detect differential expression.\nWe use synthetic and real biological data to assess the ability of several available R packages to accurately estimate FDRs. The packages surveyed are based on statistical models of overdispersed Poisson data and include edgeR, DESeq, DESeq2, PoissonSeq and QuasiSeq. Also tested is an add-on package to edgeR and DESeq which we introduce called Polyfit. Polyfit aims to address the problem of a non-uniform null p-value distribution for two-class datasets by adapting the Storey-Tibshirani procedure.\nWe find the best performing package in the sense that it achieves a low FDR which is accurately estimated over the full range of p-values, albeit with a very slow run time, is the QLSpline implementation of QuasiSeq. This finding holds provided the number of biological replicates in each condition is at least 4. The next best performing packages are edgeR and DESeq2. When the number of biological replicates is sufficiently high, and within a range accessible to multiplexed experimental designs, the Polyfit extension improves the performance DESeq (for approximately 6 or more replicates per condition), making its performance comparable with that of edgeR and DESeq2 in our tests with synthetic data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/400/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'Mathematical Sciences Institute, Australian National University', u'School of Mathematics and Statistics, University of New South Wales']]
[u'Non invasive analysis of metabolic changes following nutrient input into diverse fish species, as investigated by metabolic and microbial profiling approaches', ['Taiga Asakura', 'Kenji Sakata', 'Seiji Yoshida', 'Yasuhiro Date', 'Jun Kikuchi'], u'2014-08-22', u'An NMR-based metabolomic approach in aquatic ecosystems is valuable for studying the environmental effects of pharmaceuticals and other chemicals on fish. This technique has also contributed to new information in numerous research areas, such as basic physiology and development, disease, and water pollution. We evaluated the microbial diversity in various fish species collected from Japan\u2019s coastal waters using next-generation sequencing, followed by evaluation of the effects of feed type on co-metabolic modulations in fish-microbial symbiotic ecosystems in laboratory-scale experiments. Intestinal bacteria of fish in their natural environment were characterized (using 16S rRNA genes) for trophic level using pyrosequencing and noninvasive sampling procedures developed to study the metabolism of intestinal symbiotic ecosystems in fish reared in their environment. Metabolites in feces were compared, and intestinal contents and feed were annotated based on HSQC and TOCSY using SpinAssign and network analysis. Feces were characterized by species and varied greatly depending on the feeding types. In addition, feces samples demonstrated a response to changes in the time series of feeding. The potential of this approach as a non-invasive inspection technique in aquaculture is suggested.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/472/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Biodiversity', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Graduate School of Medical Life Science, Yokohama City University', u'Center for Sustainable Resource Science, RIKEN', u'Graduate School of Bioagricultural Sciences, Nagoya University', u'Biomass Engineering Program, RIKEN']]
[u'MicroRNAs expression profile in CCR6+ regulatory T cells', ['Juanjuan Zhao', 'Yongju Li', 'Yan Hu', 'Chao Chen', 'Ya Zhou', 'Yijin Tao', 'Mengmeng Guo', 'Nalin Qin', 'Lin Xu'], u'2014-08-22', u'Backgroud: CCR6+ CD4+ regulatory T cells (CCR6+Tregs), a distinct Tregs subset, played an important role in various immune diseases. Recent evidence showed that microRNAs (miRNAs) are vital regulators in the function of immune cells. However, the potential role of miRNAs in the function of CCR6+Tregs remains largely unknown. In this study, we detected the expression profile of miRNAs in CCR6+ Tregs. Materials and Methods: The expression profile of miRNAs as well as genes in CCR6+Tregs or CCR6-Tregs from Balb/c mice were detected by microarray. The signaling pathways were analyzed using Keggs pathway library. Results: We found that there were 58 miRNAs significantly upregulated and 62 downregulated up to 2 fold in CCR6+Tregs compared with CCR6-Tregs. Moreover, 1391 genes were observed with 3 fold change and 20 signaling pathways were enriched using Keggs pathway library. Conclusion: The present data firstly showed CCR6+Tregs expressed specific miRNAs pattern, which provide an insight into the role of miRNAs in the biological function of distinct Tregs subsets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/471/', ['Biotechnology', 'Cell Biology', 'Allergy and Clinical Immunology', 'Hematology', 'Immunology'], [u'Department of Immunology, Zunyi Medical College', u'Department of Medical physics, Zunyi Medical College']]
[u'Translation, adaptation, validation and performance of the American Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire Short Form (WEL-SF) to a Norwegian version: A cross-sectional study', ['Tone Nygaard  Fllo', 'John Roger Andersen', 'Hans Jrgen  Nielsen', 'Gerd Karin Nativig'], u'2014-08-19', u'Background: Researchers have emphasized a need to identify predictors that can explain the variability in weight management after bariatric surgery. Eating self-efficacy has demonstrated predictive impact on patients\u2019 adherence to recommended eating habits following multidisciplinary treatment programs, but has to a limited extent been subject for research after bariatric surgery. Recently an American short form version (WEL-SF) of the commonly used Weight Efficacy Lifestyle Questionnaire (WEL) was available for research and clinical purposes.\nObjectives: We intended to translate and culturally adapt the WEL-SF to Norwegian conditions, and to evaluate the new versions\u2019 psychometrical properties in a Norwegian population of morbidly obese patients eligible for bariatric surgery.\nDesign: Cross-sectional\nMethods: A total of 225 outpatients selected for Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy (LSG) were recruited; 114 non-operated and 111 operated patients, respectively. The questionnaire was translated through forward and backward procedures. Structural properties were assessed performing principal component analysis (PCA), correlation and regression analysis were conducted to evaluate convergent validity and sensitivity, respectively. Data was assessed by mean, median, item response, missing values, floor- and ceiling effect, Cronbach`s alpha and alpha if item deleted.\nResults: The PCA resulted in one factor with eigenvalue>1, explaining 63.0% of the variability. The WEL-SF sum scores were positively correlated with the Self-efficacy and quality of life instruments (p<0.001). The WEL-SF was associated with body mass index (BMI) (p<0.001) and changes in BMI (p=0.026). A very high item response was obtained with only one missing value (0.4%). The ceiling effect was in average 0.9 and 17.1% in the non-operated and operated sample, respectively. Strong internal consistency (r =0.92) was obtained, and Cronbach\u2019s alpha remained high (0.86-0.92) if single items were deleted.\nConclusion: The Norwegian version of WEL-SF appears to be a valid questionnaire on eating self-efficacy, with acceptable psychometrical properties in a population of morbidly obese patients', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/468/', ['Nursing', 'Nutrition', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Department of Surgery, Voss hospital/Haukeland University Hospital', u'Department of Global Public Health and Primary Care, University of Bergen', u'Faculty of Health Studies, Sogn og Fjordane University College', u'Department of Surgery, F\xf8rde Central Hospital', u'Department of Surgery, Voss Hospital/Haukeland University Hospital']]
[u'Quality of life of Syrian refugees living in camps in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq', ['Izaddin A Aziz', 'Claire V Hutchinson', 'John Maltby'], u'2014-08-18', u'The current study explores the perceived quality of life of Syrian refugees who have entered the Kurdistan Region of Iraq. Two hundred and seventy participants residing in refugee camps in the Erbil region in Kurdistan completed the WHOQOL-BREF, which measures quality of life (QoL) within four domains; physical, psychological, social relationships and environment. Syrian refugees in Kurdistan scored significantly lower for general population norms on physical health, psychological and environment QoL, and score significantly lower for physical health and psychological QOL for refugees in the Gaza strip. However, respondents in the current sample scored significantly higher on environment QoL to refugees in the Gaza strip, and significantly higher on all the QoL domains than those reported for refugees in West Africa. Finally, Syrian refugees in Kurdistan scored significantly higher than general population norms for environment-related QoL. The current findings provide the first report of QoL domain scores among Syrian refugees, and position the QoL scores among this sample, for the most part, within the range mean scores for QoL domains of other samples, and may, for environment-related QoL, be higher than for other refugee samples.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/467/', ['Global Health', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'College of Medicine, Biological Sciences and Psychology, University of Leicester']]
[u'Effects of deuterium oxide on cell growth and vesicle speed in RBL-2H3 cells', ['Roshni S Kalkur', 'Andrew C Ballast', 'Ashley R Triplett', 'Kathrin Spendier'], u'2014-08-16', u'For the first time we show the effects of deuterium oxide on the cell growth and vesicle transport in rat basophilic leukemia (RBL-2H3) cells. RBL-2H3 cells cultured with 15 moles/L deuterium showed decreased cell growth which was attributed to cells not doubling their DNA content. Experimental observations also showed an increase in vesicle speed for cells cultured in deuterium oxide. This increase in vesicle speed was not observed in deuterium oxide cultures treated with a microtubule-destabilizing drug suggesting that deuterium oxide affects microtubule-dependent vesicle transport.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/416/', ['Biophysics', 'Biotechnology', 'Cell Biology'], [u'BioFrontiers Center, University of Colorado at Colorado Springs', u'Department of Physics and Energy Science, University of Colorado at Colorado Springs']]
[u'An experimental test of a Bayesian method for inferring extinction with varying search efforts', ['Christopher Clements', 'Tamsin Lee', 'Micheal A McCarthy'], u'2014-08-15', u'Determining whether a species is extinct or extant is notoriously difficult, but is fundamental to both our understanding of biodiversity loss, and our ability to implement effective conservation measures. Many methods have been proposed in an attempt to infer quantitatively whether a species has gone extinct, with many seeking to do so by using sets of historic sighting events. Until recently, however, no methods have been proposed that explicitly take into account search effort (the proportion of a habitat searched when looking for a species), a key determinant of if/when historic sighting events have occurred. Here we present the first test of a recently proposed Bayesian approach for inferring the extinction status of a species from a set of historic sighting events where the search effort that has produced the sightings can be explicitly included in the calculation. We utilize data from a highly tractable experimental system, as well as simulated data, to test whether the method is robust to changing search efforts, and different levels of detectability of a species. We find that, whilst in general the method performs well, it is susceptible to both changes in search effort through time, as well as how detectable a species is. In addition, we show that the value of the prior expectation that the species is extant has a large impact on the accuracy of the methods, and that selecting correct priors is critical for accurate inference of extinction status.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/466/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Institute Of Evolutionary Biology and Environmental Studies, The University of Zurich', u'Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford', u'School of Botany, The University of Melbourne']]
[u"Tracheostomy in children with congenital heart disease: a national analysis of the Kids' Inpatient Database.", ['Bryan G Maxwell', 'Kristen Nelson McMillan'], u'2014-08-14', u'Background: While single-institution studies reported the indications and outcomes of tracheostomy in children with congenital heart disease (CHD), no national analyses have been performed. We sought to examine the indications, performance, outcomes, and resource utilization of tracheostomy in children with CHD using a nationally representative database.\nMethods: We identified all children undergoing tracheostomy in the Kids\u2019 Inpatient Database 1997 through 2009, and we compared children with CHD to children without CHD. Within the CHD group, we compared children whose tracheostomy occurred in the same hospital admissions as a cardiac operation to those whose tracheostomy occurred without a cardiac operation in the same admission.\nResults: Tracheostomy was performed in n=2,495 children with CHD, which represents 9.6% of all tracheostomies performed in children (n=25,928), and 3.5% of all admissions for children with CHD (n=355,460). Over the study period, there was an increasing trend in the proportion of all tracheostomies that were done in children with CHD (p<0.0001) and an increasing trend in the proportion of admissions for children with CHD that involved a tracheostomy (p<0.0001). The population of children with CHD undergoing tracheostomy differed markedly in baseline characteristics, outcomes, and resource utilization. Similarly, the subgroup of children whose tracheostomy was performed in the same admission as a cardiac operation differed significantly from those whose tracheostomy was not.\nConclusions: Tracheostomy is an increasingly common procedure in children with CHD despite being associated with significantly greater resource utilization and in-hospital mortality. The population of children with CHD who undergo tracheostomy differs markedly from that of children without CHD who undergo tracheostomy, and important differences are observed between children who undergo tracheostomy in the same admission as a cardiac surgical procedure and those who undergo tracheostomy in a nonsurgical admission, as well as between children with single-ventricle physiology and children with two-ventricle physiology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/465/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Cardiology', 'Epidemiology', 'Pediatrics', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins University']]
[u'Habitat creation and biodiversity maintenance in mangrove forests: Teredinid bivalves as ecosystem engineers', ['Ian W Hendy', 'Laura A Michie', 'Benjamin W Taylor'], u'2014-08-12', u'Substantial amounts of dead wood in the intertidal zone of mature mangrove forests are tunnelled by teredinid bivalves. When the tunnels are exposed, animals are able to use tunnels as refuges. In this study, the effect of teredinid tunnelling upon mangrove forest faunal diversity was investigated. Mangrove wood not containing teredinid tunnels had very few species and abundance of animals. However, with a greater cross-sectional surface area of teredinid tunnels, the numbers of species and abundance of animals was significantly higher. Temperatures within teredinid-attacked wood were significantly cooler compared with air temperatures, and the animals in tunnels inside the wood may avoid desiccation by escaping the higher temperatures. Animals co-existing in teredinid tunnelled wood ranged from animals found in terrestrial ecosystems including centipedes, crickets and spiders, and animals found in subtidal marine ecosystems such as fish, octopods and polychaetes. There was also evidence of breeding within teredinid-attacked wood, as many juvenile individuals were found, and they may also benefit from the cooler wood temperatures. Teredinid tunnelled wood is a key low-tide refuge for cryptic animals, which would otherwise be exposed to piscivorous fishes and birds, and higher external temperatures. This study provides evidence that teredinids are ecosystem engineers and also provides an example of a mechanism whereby mangrove forests support intertidal biodiversity and nurseries through the wood-boring activity of teredinids.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/462/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'School of Biological Science, The University of Portsmouth']]
[u'Oxygen transport and release of adenosine triphosphate in micro-channels and arterioles in the human microcirculation', ['Terry Moschandreou'], u'2014-08-12', u'The governing nonlinear equations for oxygen transport and ATP concentration in a microfluidic channel and tube are solved with the aid of Maple and COMSOL Multiphysics simulation software. Considering a cell-rich and cell free region with RBCs and blood plasma, we obtain results showing clearly that there is a significant decrease in oxygen tension in the vicinity of an oxygen permeable membrane placed midway on the upper channel/tube wall and to the right side of it in the downstream field. The purpose of the membrane is to cause a rapid change in oxygen saturation as RBC\u2019s flow through channel/tube. To the right of the membrane downstream the greatest amount of ATP is released. Finally the corresponding time-dependent oxygen transport problem for plug flow in a channel, which has not been simulated in previous models in the literature, is analyzed and different starting times are shown for ATP release at different points in the channel. The FE modelling is very accurate: The time evolution problem is modelled and solved in it`s entirety with exact parameters used in the literature for blood flow and oxygen transport in the microcirculation. A comparison is made between the steady state and time dependent solutions in order to validate the results. The implications of the time dependent model for biological systems such as the human microcirculation requires exact information on release of energy as ATP is released from blood cells and the present work is important in providing this information.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/443/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Applied Mathematics, Western University']]
[u'Investigation of the relationship between the PGI enzyme system and scarabs fitness response to temperature as a measure of environmental tolerance in invasive species', ['Marie-Caroline Lefort', 'Samuel D. J. Brown', 'Stephane Boyer', 'Susan SP Worner', 'Karen Armstrong'], u'2014-08-12', u'In the field of invasion ecology, the determination of a species environmental tolerance, is a key parameter in the prediction of its potential distribution, particularly in the context of global warming. In poikilothermic species such as insects, temperature is often considered the most important abiotic factor that affects numerous life-history and fitness traits through its effect on metabolic rate. Therefore the response of an insect to challenging temperatures may provide key information as to its climatic and therefore spatial distribution. Variation in the phosphoglucose-6-isomerase (PGI) metabolic enzyme-system has been proposed in some insects to underlie their relative fitness, and is recognised as a key enzyme in their thermal adaptation. However, in this context it has not been considered as a potential mechanism contributing to a species invasive cability. The present study aimed to compare the thermal tolerance of an invasive scarab, Costelytra zealandica (White) with that of the closely related, and in part sympatrically occurring, congeneric non-invasive species C. brunneum (Broun), and to consider whether any correlation with particular PGI phenotypes was apparent. Third instar larvae of each species were exposed to one of three different temperatures (10, 15 and 20\xb0C) over six weeks and their fitness (survival and growth rate) measured and PGI phenotyping performed via cellulose acetate electrophoresis. No relationship between PGI phenotypes and fitness was detected, suggesting that the PGI may not be contributing to the invasion success and pest status of C. zealandica.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/460/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University', u'Bio-Protection Research Centre and Department of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Lincoln University']]
[u'Design considerations when adopting the OpenEdx MOOC platform in campus-based courses: A comparative case study', ['Laila Zary', 'Patrik Hernwall'], u'2014-08-11', u'Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) are an innovation in higher education (Grajek, 2014). Faculty has challenges in designing MOOCs since most have mainly experience in developing campus-based courses. As MOOC platform are introduced in campus-based courses, it is important to investigate how this learning environment impacts on the design of MOOCs in relation to online environments. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate the influence of variations in the learning environment on the design of MOOCs.\nA comparative case study approach was chosen to investigate two types of learning environments. The focus was on the similarities, differences and trends. The data collection was performed using semi-structured interviews. The answers were analyzed using a qualitative content analysis.\nThe pedagogical approach and learning content were the components that were mostly influenced. The targeted learners and the assessment of the learning activities were partly influenced. The learning environment didn\u2019t impact on the course description, intended learning outcomes and aimed competencies.\nThe study contributed to knowledge on the influence of the learning environment on the design of MOOCs. Increasing understanding of the learning environment among faculty will contribute to a better design, implementation and evaluation of MOOCs and ultimately for the students\u2019 benefit.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/459/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Statistics', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Computer and System Sciences, Stockholm University']]
[u'Beyond xMOOCs in Healthcare Education: Study of the Feasibility in Integrating Virtual Patient Systems and MOOC platforms', ['Natalia Stathakarou', 'Nabil Zary', 'Andrzej A. Kononowicz'], u'2014-08-11', u'Background: Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) are an emerging method of online teaching. However in the field of healthcare education their technology is not adopted yet. Reaching beyond the xMOOC type of courses in order to foster interactivity in the healthcare education requires domain specific software. Virtual Patients (VPs) have been integrated in the past with Virtual Learning Environments (VLEs) but extending MOOCs with VPs has not yet been discussed. Objective: To investigate the technical possibilities of integrating VPs with MOOCs for the purpose of discovering a pragmatic basis were the potential pedagogical benefits can be later studied. Methods: We selected OpenEdx and Open Labyrinth as examples of a MOOC platform and of a VP system. We conducted a literature review to identify technical requirements and e-learning standards apt for the integration. One fundamental requirement was prototyped and verified by use cases. Results: A Single\u2013Sign on mechanism connecting Open Labyrinth with OpenEdx, employing the IMS LTI standard, has been successfully implemented and verified. Conclusion: We investigated the technical perspective of integrating VPs in MOOCs, aiming to set a base for future investigation on the topic. The results point out new opportunities arising from the infrastructure of MOOCs for integrating specialized software aiming to support the healthcare education.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/458/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Learning Informatics Management and Ethics, Karolinska Institutet', u'Department of Learning Informatics Management and Ethics (LIME), Karolinska Institutet', u'Department of Bioinformatics and Telemedicine, Jagiellonian University Medical College']]
[u'Visual Analytics in healthcare education: Exploring novel ways to analyze and represent big data in undergraduate medical education', ['Christos Vaitsis', 'Gunnar Nilsson', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2014-08-11', u'Big data in undergraduate medical education that consist the medical curriculum are beyond human abilities to be perceived and analyzed. The medical curriculum is the main tool used by teachers and directors to plan, design and deliver teaching activities, assessment methods and student evaluation in medical education in a continuous effort to improve it. It remains unexploited mainly for medical education improvement purposes. The emerging research field of Visual Analytics has the advantage to combine data analysis and manipulation techniques, information and knowledge representation, and human cognitive strength to perceive and recognize visual patterns. Nevertheless, there is lack of findings reporting use and benefits of Visual Analytics in medical education.\nWe analyzed data from the medical curriculum of an undergraduate medical program concerning teaching activities, assessment methods and results and learning outcomes in order to explore Visual Analytics as a tool for finding ways of representing big data from undergraduate medical education for improvement purposes. We used Cytoscape to build networks of the identified aspects and visualize them.\nThe analysis and visualization of the identified aspects resulted in building an abstract model of the examined data from the curriculum presented in three different variants; (i) learning outcomes and teaching methods, (ii) examination and learning outcomes and (iii) teaching methods, learning outcomes, examination results and gap analysis\nThis study identified aspects of medical curriculum. The implementation of VA revealed three novel ways of representing big data from undergraduate medical education. It seems to be a useful tool to explore such data and may have future implications on healthcare education. It also opens a new direction in medical informatics research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/456/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska Institutet', u'Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'Combining Physical and Virtual Contexts through Augmented Reality: Design and Evaluation of a prototype using drug box as marker for antibiotics\u2019 training', ['Sokratis Nifakos', 'Tanja Tomson', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2014-08-11', u'Introduction: Antimicrobial resistance is a global health issue. Studies have shown that improved antibiotic prescription education among healthcare professionals reduces mistakes during the antibiotic prescription process. The aim of this study was to investigate novel educational approaches that through the use of Augmented Reality technology could make use of the real physical context and thereby enrich the educational process of antibiotics prescription. The objective is to investigate which type of information related to antibiotics could be used in an augmented reality application for antibiotics education. Methods: This study followed the Design Based Research Methodology composed of the following main steps: problem analysis, investigation of information that should be visualized for the training session and finally the involvement of the end users the development and evaluation processes of the prototype. Results: Two of the most important aspects in antibiotics\u2019 prescription processes, to represent in an augmented reality application, are the antibiotic guidelines and the side effects. Moreover, this study showed how this information could be visualized from a mobile device using an Augmented Reality scanner and antibiotic drug boxes as markers. Discussion: In this study we investigated the usage of objects from a real physical context such as drug boxes and how they could be used as educational resources. The logical next steps are to examine how this approach of combining physical and virtual contexts through Augmented Reality applications could contribute to the improvement of competencies among healthcare professionals and its impact on the decrease of antibiotics resistance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/455/', ['Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Public Health', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of learning informatics management and ethics/Digital Patient Lab, Karolinska Institute']]
[u'Exploring the knowledge and attitudes of Pakistani university students towards mental illnesses', ['Ahmed Waqas', 'Muhammad Zubair', 'Hamza Ghulam', 'Muhammad Wajih ullah', 'Zubair Tariq', 'Muhammad Arshad', 'Muhammad Asim Shabbir', 'Ayeshah Sarfaraz'], u'2014-08-10', u'Background:  The objectives of the study were to explore the knowledge and attitudes of Pakistani university students toward mental illnesses. People with mental illnesses are challenged not only by their symptoms but also by the prejudices associated with their illness. Acknowledging the stigma of mental illness should be the first essential step toward devising an appropriate treatment plan.\nMethods: A cross-sectional survey was conducted at the University of Punjab, Lahore, CMH Lahore Medical and Dental College, Lahore, and University of Sargodha, Sub-campus Lahore, from February to May, 2014. The self-administered questionnaire consisted of three sections: demographics, general knowledge of psychiatric illnesses, and a modified form of the Community Attitudes towards Mental Illnesses (CAMI) Scale. The questionnaire was distributed to 650 participants enrolled in different disciplines (Social Sciences, Medicine and Formal Sciences).\nResults: Response rate was 81% (527/650 respondents). Mean age was 20.98 years. Most of the students (331, 62.8%) had an urban background and studied Social Sciences (238, 45.2%). 418 (79.3%) considered religion very important and most respondents considered psychiatrists (334, 63.4%) and spiritual leaders (72, 13.7%) to be best able to treat mental illnesses. 169 (32.1%) considered black magic to be a cause of mental illness. Only 215 (41%) had ever read an article on mental illnesses. Multiple regression analysis revealed study discipline, exposure, perceived causes of mental illnesses and superstitions to be significantly associated with attitudes towards mental illnesses (p < .05).\nConclusion: Although low awareness and exposure were found in this sample of Pakistani university students, their attitude towards mental illnesses was generally positive. Most respondents gave supernatural explanations for mental illnesses but only a few believed that spiritual leaders can play a role in treatment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/454/', ['Health Policy', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'CMH Lahore Medical College and Institute of Dentistry', u'FMH College of Medicine and Dentistry', u'King Edward Medical University', u'Chittagong Medical College']]
[u'Induced sensitivity of Bacillus subtilis colony morphology to mechanical media compression', ['Jessica Polka', 'Pamela A Silver'], u'2014-08-09', u'Bacteria from several taxa, including Kurthia zopfii, Myxococcus xanthus, and Bacillus mycoides, have been reported to align growth of their colonies to small features on the surface of solid media, including anisotropies created by compression. While the function of this phenomenon is unclear, it may help organisms navigate on solid phases, such as soil. The origin of this behavior is also unknown: it may be biological (that is, dependent on components that sense the environment and regulate growth accordingly) or merely physical. Here we show that B. subtilis, an organism which typically does not respond to media compression, can be induced to do so with two simple and synergistic perturbations: a mutation that maintains cells in the swarming (chained) state, and the addition of EDTA to the growth media, which further increases chain length. EDTA apparently increases cell length by inducing defects in cell separation, as the treatment has only marginal effects on the length of individual cells. These results lead us to three conclusions. First, the wealth of genetic tools available to B. subtilis will provide a genetically tractable chassis for engineering compression sensitive organisms in the future. Second, the sensitivity of colony morphology to media compression in Bacillus is a physical rather than biological phenomenon dependent on a simple physical property of rod-shaped cells. And third, colony morphology under compression holds promise as a rapid, simple, and low-cost way to screen for changes in the length of rod-shaped cells or chains thereof.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/452/', ['Cell Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School']]
[u'Removal of organics and metal ion nanoparticles from synthetic wastewater by activated sludge process (ASP)', ['Tarunveer Singh', 'Shubhanshu Jain'], u'2014-08-06', u'Adsorption technique is widely used for removal of toxic organic contaminants from aqueous streams. Owing to the hazardous or otherwise undesirable characteristics of phenolic compounds in particular, their presence in wastewater from municipal and industrial discharge is one of the most important environmental issue. The discharge of poor quality effluents by the chemical-based laboratories and refineries in India is posing a serious threat to water sources and wastewater treatment installations alike. Our study was set up in the Indo - French Unit for Water & Wastewater Technologies (IFUWWT), IIT Delhi. The main objective of this study was to assess the efficiency of a laboratory-scale activated sludge treatment process in producing a final effluent conforming to regulatory standards of Central Pollution Control Board, India (CPCB norms) with regards to COD and metal ion loads. The study was conducted in three principal stages: characterization of wastewater containing nanoparticles; treatability studies of laboratory generated discards and investigations of heavy metal ions before and after treatment. The various raw effluent parameters analyzed were COD, BOD, F/M ratio, Sludge Value Index, Total Solids and concentrations of Cu, Ag and Zn. Studies were conducted using two aerobic sequencing batch reactors (SBR). MLSS of the aeration basin was calculated to be 7180\xb1261.3 mg/L while the F/M ratio was kept down to 0.1560\xb1.0149; besides, an SVI of 107.24 mL/g complied with the state of bioreactor\u2019s sludge. These set of values suggested to set an extended aeration processes for the reactors. Accordingly, the detention time in aeration basin was 24 hours. The results showed over 98% influent COD reduction and nearly 100% removal of metal ions. The sample used was operated on sludge collected from Vasant Kunj Wastewater Treatment plant. Based on the results from waste characterization and treatability studies, it was decided that the mixed liquor discharged in the activation tank should have glucose solution and laboratory discarded sample in 1:1 ratio. The reactor was operated on a glucose fed batch basis for 30 days. For the sake of metal analysis, the digested water samples were analyzed for the presence of copper, silver and zinc using the ElementAS AAS4141 Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer (by Electronics Corporation of India Ltd). The biosorption capacities were found to be over 95% in all the cases with the minimum correlation coefficient for calibration curve being 0.9811. Such a high sludge yield is suggestive of the fact that heavy metals are in very low concentrations in the considered carboy sample. Because of these insignificant values, the amount of metal ions introduced to the system gets adsorbed almost completely, hence leaving behind no metal ion within the supernatant. Well-treated wastewater has enormous potential as a source of water for crops, households and industry.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/451/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Civil Engineering, Indian Institute of Technology Delhi']]
[u'Women are underrepresented on the editorial boards of journals in environmental biology and natural resource management', ['Alyssa Cho', 'Shelly A Johnson', 'Carrie Schuman', 'Jennifer Adler', 'Oscar Gonzalez', 'Sarah J Graves', 'Jana Huebner', 'D Blaine Marchant', 'Sami Rifai', 'Irina Skinner', 'Emilio M Bruna'], u'2014-08-05', u'Despite women earning similar numbers of graduate degrees as men in STEM disciplines, they are underrepresented in upper level positions in both academia and industry. Editorial board memberships are an important example of such positions; membership is both a professional honor in recognition of achievement and an opportunity for professional advancement. We surveyed 10 highly regarded journals in environmental biology, natural resource management, and plant sciences to quantify the number of women on their editorial boards and in positions of editorial leadership (i.e., Associate Editors and Editors-in-Chief) from 1985-2013. We found that during this time period only 16% of editorial board members were women, with more pronounced disparities in positions of editorial leadership. Although the trend was towards improvement over time, there was surprising variation between journals, including those with similar disciplinary foci. While demographic changes in academia may reduce these disparities over time, we argue journals should proactively strive for gender parity on their editorial boards. This will both increase the number of women afforded the opportunities and benefits that accompany board membership and increase the number of role models and potential mentors for early-career scientists and students.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/369/', ['Science Policy'], [u'Agronomy Department, University of Florida', u'School of Forest Resources and Conservation, University of Florida', u'School of Natural Resources and Environment, University of Florida', u'Biology Department, University of Florida', u'Department of Wildlife Ecology and Conservation, University of Florida', u'Center for Latin American Studies, University of Florida']]
[u'A suffrutescent Helianthus from Los Angeles County, California', ['Aleksi Baznekian'], u'2014-08-04', u'A suffrutescent individual, belonging to the genus Helianthus, and bearing resemblance to H. annuus, has been observed in Los Angeles County, California. This individual was observed to woody proximally; not a character of the herbaceous annual sunflower, H. annuus. Photographs of this woody individual and a general herbaceous representative H. annuus are presented in this article. Dr. David J. Keil, an Asteraceae (sunflower family) taxonomist, suggests that a new shrubby species of Helianthus may be present in California, and thus, this suffrutescent individual may be a representative of that woody species. It may also be a woody variety of H. annuus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/450/', ['Taxonomy'], [u'Private Researcher']]
[u'With or without light: comparing the reaction mechanism of dark-operative protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase with the energetic requirements of the light-dependent protochlorophyllide oxidoreductase', ['Pedro J Silva'], u'2014-08-03', u'The addition of two electrons and two protons to the C17=C18 bond in protochlorophyllide is catalyzed by a light-dependent enzyme relying on NADPH as electron donor, and by a light-independent enzyme bearing a (Cys)3Asp-ligated [4Fe-4S] cluster which is reduced by cytoplasmic electron donors in an ATP-dependent manner and then functions as electron donor to protochlorophyllide. The precise sequence of events occurring at the C17=C18 bond has not, however, been determined experimentally in the dark-operating enzyme. In this paper, we present the computational investigation of the reaction mechanism of this enzyme at the B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p)// B3LYP/6-31G(d) level of theory. The reaction mechanism begins with single-electron reduction of the substrate by the (Cys)3Asp-ligated [4Fe-4S], yielding a negatively-charged intermediate. Depending on the rate of Fe-S cluster re-reduction, the reaction either proceeds through double protonation of the single-electron-reduced substrate, or by alternating proton/electron transfer. The computed reaction barriers suggest that Fe-S cluster re-reduction should be the rate-limiting stage of the process. Poisson-Boltzmann computations on the full enzyme-substrate complex, followed by Monte Carlo simulations of redox and protonation titrations revealed a hitherto unsuspected pH-dependence of the reaction potential of the Fe-S cluster. Furthermore, the computed distributions of protonation states of the His, Asp and Glu residues were used in conjunction with single-point ONIOM computations to obtain, for the first time, the influence of all protonation states of an enzyme on the reaction it catalyzes. Despite exaggerating the ease of reduction of the substrate, these computations confirmed the broad features of the reaction mechanism obtained with the medium-sized models, and afforded valuable insights on the influence of the titratable amino acids on each reaction step. Additional comparisons of the energetic features of the reaction intermediates with those of common biochemical redox intermediates suggest a surprisingly simple explanation for the mechanistic differences between the dark-catalyzed and light-dependent enzyme reaction mechanisms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/302/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Faculdade de Ci\xeancias da Sa\xfade, Universidade Fernando Pessoa']]
[u'The relationship between managed bees and the prevalence of parasites in bumblebees', ['Peter Graystock', 'Dave Goulson', 'William O Hughes'], u'2014-08-01', u'Honey bees and, more recently, bumblebees have been domesticated and are now managed commercially primarily for crop pollination, mixing with wild pollinators during foraging on shared flower resources. There is mounting evidence that managed honey bees or commercially produced bumblebees may affect the health of wild pollinators such as bumblebees by increasing competition for resources and the prevalence of parasites in wild bees. Here we screened 764 bumblebees from around five greenhouses that either used commercially produced bumblebees or did not, as well as bumblebees from 10 colonies placed at two sites either close to or far from a honey bee apiary, for the parasites  Apicystis bombi,  Crithidia bombi,  Nosema bombi,  N. ceranae, N. apis  and deformed wing virus. We found that  A. bombi  and  C. bombi  were more prevalent around greenhouses using commercially produced bumblebees, while  C. bombi  was 18% more prevalent in bumblebees at the site near to the honey bee apiary than those at the site far from the apiary. Whilst these results are from only a limited number of sites, they support previous reports of parasite spillover from commercially produced bumblebees to wild bumblebees, and suggest that the impact of stress from competing with managed bees or the vectoring of parasites by them on parasite prevalence in wild bees needs further investigation. It appears increasingly likely that the use of managed bees comes at a cost of increased parasites in wild bumblebees, which is not only a concern for bumblebee conservation, but which may impact other pollinators as well.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/309/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Entomology', 'Parasitology'], [u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol', u'School of Life Sciences, University of Sussex']]
[u'Genetic reprogramming of human amniotic cells with episomal vectors: Neural rosettes as sentinels in candidate selection for validation assays', ['Patricia G Wilson', 'Tiffany Payne'], u'2014-07-31', u'The promise of genetic reprogramming has prompted initiatives to develop banks of induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) from diverse sources. Sentinel assays for pluripotency could maximize available resources for generating iPSCs. Neural rosettes represent a primitive neural tissue that is unique to differentiating PSCs and commonly used to identify derivative neural/stem progenitors. Here, neural rosettes were used as a sentinel assay for pluripotency in selection of candidates to advance to validation assays. Candidate iPSCs were generated from independent populations of amniotic cells with episomal vectors. Phase imaging of living back up cultures showed neural rosettes in 2 of the 5 candidate populations. Rosettes were immunopositive for the Sox1, Sox2, Pax6 and Pax7 transcription factors that govern neural development in the earliest stage of development and for the Isl1/2 and Otx2 transcription factors that are expressed in the dorsal and ventral domains, respectively, of the neural tube in vivo. Dissociation of rosettes produced cultures of differentiation competent neural/stem progenitors that generated immature neurons that were immunopositive for Beta III-tubulin and glia that were immunopositive for GFAP. Subsequent validation assays of selected candidates showed induced expression of endogenous pluripotency genes, epigenetic modification of chromatin and formation of teratomas in immunodeficient mice that contained derivatives of the 3 embryonic germ layers. Validated lines were vector-free and maintained a normal karyotype for more than 60 passages. The credibility of rosette assembly as a sentinel assay for PSCs is supported by coordinate loss of nuclear-localized pluripotency factors Oct4 and Nanog in neural rosettes that emerge spontaneously in cultures of self-renewing validated lines. Taken together, these findings demonstrate value in neural rosettes as sentinels for pluripotency and selection of promising candidates for advance to validation assays.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/449/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Genetics'], [u'Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Wake Forest Health Sciences', u'Department of Biology, Wake Forest University']]
[u'Low effect on open-farmland birds of young afforestations in heterogeneous Mediterranean croplands', ['Juan S. Sanchez-Oliver', 'Jose M. Rey Benayas', 'Luis M. L.M. Carrascal'], u'2014-07-30', u'Afforestation programs such as the one promoted by the EU Common Agricultural Policy have spread tree plantations on former cropland. These afforestations attract generalist forest and ubiquitous species but may cause severe damage to open habitat species, especially birds of high conservation value. We investigated the effects of young (< 20 yr) tree plantations dominated by pine P. halepensis on bird communities inhabiting the adjacent open farmland habitat in central Spain. We hypothesize that pine plantations with larger surface, and areas at shorter distances from plantations, would result in lower bird species richness and conservation value of open farmland birds. Regression models controlling for the influence of land use types around plantations revealed significant positive effects of distance to pine plantation edge on community species richness in winter, and negative effects on an index of conservation concern (SPEC) during the breeding season. However, plantation area did not have any effect on species richness or community conservation value. Our results indicate that pine afforestation of Mediterranean cropland in heterogeneous agricultural landscapes has an overall low detrimental effect on bird species that are characteristic of open farmland habitat.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/448/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Departamento de Ciencias de la Vida, Universidad de Alcala', u'Applied Population and Community Ecology Laboratory, CIBIO/InBIO-Universidade do Porto', u'Departamento de Biodiversidad y Biolog\xeda Evolutiva, Museo Nacional de Ciencias Naturales-CSIC']]
[u'Animal-oriented Virtual Environments: illusion, dilation, and discovery', ['Bradly Alicea'], u'2014-07-25', u'As a research tool, virtual environments hold immense promise for brain scientists. Yet to fully realize this potential in non-human systems, theoretical and conceptual perspectives must be developed. When selectively coupled to nervous systems, virtual environments can help us better understand the functional architecture of animals\u2019 brains during naturalistic behaviors. While this will no doubt allow us to further our understanding of the neural basis of behavior, there is also an opportunity to uncover the diversity inherent in brain activity and behavior. This is due to two properties of virtual environments: the ability to create sensory illusions, and the ability to dilate space and/or time. These and other potential manipulations will be characterized as the effects of virtuality. In addition, the systems-level outcomes of virtual environment-enhanced perception will be discussed in the context of the uncanny valley and other expected relationships between emotional valence, cognition, and training. These effects and their usefulness for brain science will be understood in the context of three types of neurobehavioral phenomena: sensorimotor integration, spatial navigation, and interactivity. For each of these behaviors, a combination of illusory and space/time dilation examples will be reviewed. Once these examples are presented, the implications for improving upon virtual models for more directly inducing the mental phenomena of illusion and space/time dilation will be considered. To conclude, future directions for integrating this research area into a strategy of broader biological inquiry will be presented.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/193/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Neuroscience', 'Zoology', 'Translational Medicine', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Orthogonal Research']]
[u'Consistent, comprehensive and computationally efficient OTU definitions', ['Jai Ram Rideout', 'Yan He', 'Jose Antonio Navas-Molina', 'William A Walters', 'Luke K Ursell', 'Sean M Gibbons', 'John H Chase', 'Daniel McDonald', 'Antonio Gonzalez', 'Adam Robbins-Pianka', 'Jose C Clemente', 'Jack Gilbert', 'Susan M Huse', 'Hong-Wei Zhou', 'Rob Knight', 'J Gregory Caporaso'], u'2014-07-24', u'We present a performance-optimized algorithm, subsampled open-reference OTU picking, for assigning marker gene (e.g., 16S rRNA) sequences generated on next-generation sequencing platforms to operational taxonomic units (OTUs) for microbial community analysis. This algorithm provides benefits over de novo OTU picking (clustering can be performed largely in parallel, reducing runtime) and closed-reference OTU picking (all reads are clustered, not only those that match a reference database sequence with high similarity). Because more of our algorithm can be run in parallel relative to \u201cclassic\u201d open-reference OTU picking, it makes open-reference OTU picking tractable on massive amplicon sequence data sets (though on smaller data sets, \u201cclassic\u201d open-reference OTU clustering is often faster). We illustrate that here by applying it to the first 15,000 samples sequenced for the Earth Microbiome Project (1.3 billion V4 16S rRNA amplicons). To the best of our knowledge, this is the largest OTU picking run ever performed, and we estimate that our new algorithm runs in less than 1/5 the time than would be required of \u201cclassic\u201d open reference OTU picking. We show that subsampled open-reference OTU picking yields results that are highly correlated with those generated by \u201cclassic\u201d open-reference OTU picking through comparisons on three well-studied datasets. An implementation of this algorithm is provided in the popular QIIME software package, which uses uclust for read clustering. All analyses were performed using QIIME\u2019s uclust wrappers, though we provide details (aided by the open-source code in our GitHub repository) that will allow implementation of subsampled open-reference OTU picking independently of QIIME (e.g., in a compiled programming language, where runtimes should be further reduced). Our analyses should generalize to other implementations of these OTU picking algorithms. Finally, we present a comparison of parameter settings in QIIME\u2019s OTU picking workflows and make recommendations on settings for these free parameters to optimize runtime without reducing the quality of the results. These optimized parameters can vastly decrease the runtime of uclust-based OTU picking in QIIME.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/411/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Center for Microbial Genetics and Genomics, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai', u'School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine, Southern Medical University', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Colorado Boulder', u'Department of Molecular, Cellular, and Developmental Biology, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, University of Colorado Boulder', u'Graduate Program in Biophysical Sciences, University of Chicago', u'Institute for Genomics and Systems Biology, Argonne National Laboratory', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Northern Arizona University', u'BioFrontiers Institute, University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Chicago', u'Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Brown University', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute']]
[u'Bayesian estimation of predator diet composition from fatty acids and stable isotopes', ['Philipp Neubauer', 'Olaf P Jensen'], u'2014-07-22', u'Quantitative analysis of stable isotopes (SI) and, more recently, fatty acid profiles (FAP) are useful and complementary tools for estimating the relative contribution of different prey items in the diet of a predator. The combination of these two approaches, however, has thus far been limited and qualitative. We propose a mixing model for FAP that follows the Bayesian machinery employed in state-of-the-art mixing models for SI. This framework provides both point estimates and probability distributions for individual and population level diet proportions. Where fat content and conversion coefficients are available, they can be used to improve diet estimates. This model can be explicitly integrated with analogous models for SI to increase resolution and clarify predator-prey relationships. We apply our model to simulated data and an experimental dataset that allows us to illustrate modeling strategies and demonstrate model performance. Our methods are provided as an open source software package for the statistical computing environment R.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/413/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Dragonfly Science', u'Institute of Marine and Coastal Science, Rutgers University']]
[u'Limits of uncertainty about estimates of probability of ecological events', ['Petr Keil'], u'2014-07-21', u"Probability (\\(P\\)) of binomial event is a commonly estimated quantity in ecology. Recently, interest has moved to estimation and communication of the associated uncertainty about the estimates of \\(P\\). Here I use the principle of maximum entropy to introduce truncated exponential probability density function \\(f(P)\\) on a closed interval [0,1] that gives expectation of the uncertainty, given that the only information we have is a single-number estimate \\(P_{single}\\), which I assume to represent mean \\(\\mu\\) of an unknown probability density distribution of \\(P\\). This expectation puts an upper bound on the maximum uncertainty about \\(P\\). I also present the associated cumulative distribution function, quantile function, and random number generator. I demonstrate the MaxEnt \\(f(P)\\) on a species distribution model predicting probability of a species' occurrence on a geographic map. The MaxEnt \\(f(P)\\) presented here can be used to make conservative probabilistic statements about probability statements, and it can be used as an alternative to beta distribution, and as the least informative prior distribution of \\(P\\) in Bayesian modelling.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/446/', ['Ecology', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Center for Theoretical Study, Charles University in Prague', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Yale University']]
[u'Sperm specific expression of temperature-sensitive ion channel TRPM8 correlates with vertebrate evolution', ['Rakesh Kumar Majhi', 'Somdatta Saha', 'Ashutosh Kumar', 'Nirlipta Swain', 'Luna Goswami', 'Pratyush Mohapatra', 'Apratim A Maity', 'Vivek Kumar Sahoo', 'Abhishek Kumar', 'Chandan Goswami'], u'2014-07-16', u'Transient Receptor Potential subfamily Melastatin member 8 (TRPM8) is involved in detection of cold temperature and different noxious compounds, execute thermo- as well as chemo-sensitive responses at cellular levels. Here we explored the molecular evolution of TRPM8 by analyzing sequences from different species. We elucidate that different regions of TRPM8 had different levels of selection pressure and the 4-5th transmembrane regions remain highly conserved. Synteny analysis suggests that since vertebrate origin, TRPM8 gene is linked with SPP2, a bone morphogen. We found 16656 TRPM8 variants in 1092 human genomes with top variations are SNPs, insertions and deletions. 692 missense mutations are also mapped to human TRPM8 protein. TRPM8 expresses endogenously in sperm cells of different vertebrates ranging from fish to human. We conclude that TRPM8 has emerged during vertebrate evolution (ca 450 MYA) and sperm-specific expression has guided its molecular evolution. These understandings may have medical importance as well.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/440/', ['Cell Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Medical Genetics'], [u'Biological Sciences, National Institute of Science Education and Research, Institute of Physics Campus,', u'School of Biotechnology, KIIT University', u'School of Biotechnology,, KIIT University', u'Department of Zoology, Government Science College', u'Department of Veterinary Biochemistry,, CVSc&AH, Orissa University of Agriculture & Technology', u'Biological Sciences, National Institute of Science Education and Research, Institute of Physics Campus', u'Department of Genetics & Molecular Biology in Botany, Institute of Botany, University of Kiel (CAU)']]
[u'Journal title abbreviations should be eliminated in the digital age', ['Alexander L Bond', 'Jessica R Green'], u'2014-07-21', u'Journal title abbreviations in articles\u2019 lists of citations are troublesome for authors, editors, librarians, and researchers. While the origin of these abbreviations in the mid-17th century, and their propagation to modern times was likely the result of a desire to save space in articles, or as shorthand, we argue that in the digital age, such practices should be changed. We show that a journal\u2019s choice to abbreviate journal titles in its literature cited section is purely arbitrary, and that the costs of abbreviating outweigh the benefits. Scientific journals in particular are prone to abbreviate journal titles, and this could hamper interdisciplinary research by creating an \u201cin-group\u201d mentality, however small.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/445/', ['Ecology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Centre for Conservation Science, Royal Society for the Protection of Birds', u'Independent Researcher']]
[u'A method for quantifying, visualising, and analysing gastropod shell form', ['Thor-Seng Liew', 'Menno Schilthuizen'], u'2014-07-21', u'Quantitative analysis of organismal form is an important component for almost every branch of biology. Although generally considered an easily-measurable structure, the quantification of gastropod shell form is still a challenge because shells lack homologous structures and have a spiral form that is difficult to capture with linear measurements. In view of this, we adopt the idea of theoretical modelling of shell form, in which the shell form is the product of aperture ontogeny profiles in terms of aperture growth trajectory that is quantified as curvature and torsion, and of aperture form that is represented by size and shape. We develop a workflow for the analysis of shell forms based on the aperture ontogeny profile, starting from the procedure of data preparation (retopologising the shell model), via data acquisition (calculation of aperture growth trajectory, aperture form and ontogeny axis), and data presentation (qualitative comparison between shell forms) and ending with data analysis (quantitative comparison between shell forms). We evaluate our methods on representative shells of the genus Opisthostoma, which exhibit great variability in shell form. The outcome suggests that our method is a robust, reproducible, and versatile approach for the analysis of shell form. Finally, we propose several potential applications of our methods in functional morphology, theoretical modelling, taxonomy, and evolutionary biology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/157/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute Biology Leiden, Leiden University', u'Terrestrial Zoology, Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation, Universiti Malaysia Sabah', u'Character Evolution Group, Naturalis Biodiversity Center']]
[u'Approaches to describing inter-rater reliability of the overall clinical appearance of febrile infants and toddlers in the Emergency Department.', ['Paul Walsh', 'Justin M. Thornton', 'Nicholas Walker', 'John Gary McCoy', 'Joe Baal', 'Jed Baal', 'Nanse Mendoza', 'Faried Banimahd MD', 'Julie Asato'], u'2014-07-20', u"Objectives To measure inter-rater agreement of overall clinical appearance of febrile children aged less than 24 months and to compare methods for doing so.\nStudy Design and setting We performed an observational study of inter-rater reliability of the assessment of febrile children in a county hospital emergency department serving a mixed urban and rural population. Two emergency medicine healthcare providers independently evaluated the overall clinical appearance of children less than 24 months of age who had presented for fever. They recorded the initial \u2018gestalt\u2019 assessment of whether or not the child was ill appearing or if they were unsure. They then repeated this assessment after examining the child. Each rater was blinded to the other\u2019s assessment. Our primary analysis was graphical. We also calculated Cohen\u2019s \u03ba, Gwet\u2019s agreement coefficient and other measures of agreement and weighted variants of these. We examined the effect of time between exams and patient and provider characteristics on inter-rater agreement.\nResults We analyzed 159 of the 173 patients enrolled. Median age was 9.5 months (lower and upper quartiles 4.9-14.6), 99/159 (62%) were boys and 22/159 (14%) were admitted. Overall 118/159 (74%) and 119/159 (75%) were classified as well appearing on initial \u2018gestalt\u2019 impression by both examiners. Summary statistics varied from 0.223 for weighted \u03ba to 0.635 for Gwet\u2019s AC2. Inter rater agreement was affected by the time interval between the evaluations and the age of the child but not by the experience levels of the rater pairs. Classifications of \u2018not ill appearing\u2019 were more reliable than others.\nConclusion The inter-rater reliability of emergency providers' assessment of overall clinical appearance was adequate when described graphically and by Gwet\u2019s AC. Different summary statistics yield different results for the same dataset.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/444/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Epidemiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Pediatrics'], [u'Emergency Medicine, UC Davis', u'Emergency Medicine, Kern Medical Center', u'Emergency Medicine, University of California Irvine']]
[u'On the processes generating latitudinal richness gradients: identifying diagnostic patterns and predictions', ['Allen H Hurlbert', 'James C Stegen'], u'2014-07-18', u'Many processes have been put forward to explain the latitudinal gradient in species richness. Here, we use a simulation model to examine four of the most common hypotheses and identify patterns that might be diagnostic of those four hypotheses. The hypotheses examined include (1) tropical niche conservatism, or the idea that the tropics are more diverse because a tropical clade origin has allowed more time for diversification in the tropics and has resulted in few species adapted to extra-tropical climates. (2) The productivity, or energetic constraints, hypothesis suggests that species richness is limited by the amount of biologically available energy in a region. (3) The tropical stability hypothesis argues that major climatic fluctuations and glacial cycles in extratropical regions have led to greater extinction rates and less opportunity for specialization relative to the tropics. (4) Finally, the speciation rates hypothesis suggests that the latitudinal richness gradient arises from a parallel gradient in rates of speciation. We found that tropical niche conservatism can be distinguished from the other three scenarios by phylogenies which are more balanced than expected, no relationship between mean root distance and richness across regions, and a homogeneous rate of speciation across clades and through time. The energy gradient, speciation gradient, and disturbance gradient scenarios all exhibited phylogenies which were more imbalanced than expected, showed a negative relationship between mean root distance and richness, and diversity-dependence of speciation rate estimates through time. Using Bayesian Analysis of Macroevolutionary Mixtures on the simulated phylogenies, we found that the relationship between speciation rates and latitude could distinguish among these three scenarios. We emphasize the importance of considering multiple hypotheses and focusing on diagnostic predictions instead of predictions that are consistent with more than one hypothesis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/442/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina', u'Curriculum for the Environment and Ecology, University of North Carolina', u'Pacific Northwest National Laboratory']]
[u'Error correction and diversity analysis of population mixtures determined by NGS', ['Graham R Wood', 'Nigel Burroughs', 'David J Evans', 'Eugene V Ryabov'], u'2014-07-18', u'The impetus for this work was the need to analyse nucleotide diversity in a viral mix taken from honeybees; the methods are illustrated using honeybee viral samples. The paper has two findings. First, a method for correction of next generation sequencing error in the distribution of nucleotides at a site is developed. Second, a package of methods for assessment of nucleotide diversity is assembled. A statistically based error correction method is presented, which works at the level of the nucleotide distribution rather than the level of individual nucleotides. The method relies on an error model and a sample of known viral genotypes that is used for model calibration. A compendium of existing and new diversity analysis tools is also presented, allowing hypotheses about diversity and mean diversity to be tested and associated confidence intervals to be calculated. Software in both Excel and Matlab and a guide are available at http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/systemsbiology/research/software/, the Warwick University Systems Biology Centre software download site.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/441/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Systems Biology, University of Warwick, UK', u'Centre for Systems Biology, University of Warwick', u'School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick']]
[u'Cancer as a script and possible implications on workings of genome', ['Muhummadh Khan'], u'2014-07-17', u'There is a need for a genomic theoretical framework which would explain the increasingly vast and discreet genomic data in the context of phenomena observed in cell. The search for a genomic explanation to functional networks of cancer metasignature genes lead to the concept of the genomic script which extends its influence over the workings of genome in general. This framework explains multiple phenomenon like the development of an embryo, differentiation of cells, and genomic workings of cancer. It also shines light on the evolution of unicellular and multicellular organisms. Yet it remains a simple construct; a perennial loop with its adaptor loops constituting the genomic script.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/126/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Oncology'], [u'none']]
[u'Patient beliefs and attitudes towards the acceptability of receiving alcohol use enquiry from general practitioners: a literature review', ['Louis Leong', 'Chun Wah Michael Tam'], u'2014-07-15', u'Background: Routine use of alcohol screening questionnaires is recommended in primary care, but patient beliefs and attitudes towards the acceptability of receiving alcohol enquiry from general practitioners (GPs) are unclear.\nMethods: We searched medical databases to identify published empirical research on patient beliefs, attitudes and experiences towards receiving alcohol discussions from GPs. Coherent themes were synthesised from the results of the included studies using a realist perspective. Seventeen studies were included in the review \u2013 the majority were quantitative surveys from the UK, Nordic countries, North America and Australia.\nResults and Discussion: GPs are seen to be legitimate providers of lifestyle advice, but patients may not find alcohol enquiry acceptable in a specific consultation. Alcohol discussions are less acceptable than those on other health promotion topics. The context of the consultation, such as the reason for presenting and the patient-doctor relationship, has an important influence on the situational acceptability of alcohol enquiry. \nConclusion: Although GP involvement in health promotion is perceived as legitimate, alcohol enquiry in consultations can be fraught and unwelcome. Contextual factors pertaining to the consultation appear to be important but these have not been well explored in the literature. Conclusions from this review should be restricted to societies with \u201cTemperance\u201d drinking cultures.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/439/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South Wales (UNSW Australia)', u'General Practice Unit, Fairfield Hospital, South Western Sydney Local Health District']]
[u'Medicines, shaken and stirred: a critical review on the ecotoxicology of pharmaceutical mixtures', ['Thomas Backhaus'], u'2014-07-13', u'Analytical monitoring surveys routinely confirm that organisms in the environment are exposed to complex multi-component pharmaceutical mixtures. We are hence tasked with the challenge to take this into consideration when investigating the ecotoxicology of pharmaceuticals. This review first provides a brief overview of the fundamental approaches for mixture toxicity assessment, which is then followed by a critical review on the empirical evidence that is currently at hand on the ecotoxicology of pharmaceutical mixtures. It is concluded that, while the classical concepts of Concentration Addition and Independent Action (Response Addition) provide a robust scientific footing, several knowledge gaps remain. This includes in particular the need for more and better empirical data on the effects of pharmaceutical mixtures on soil organisms as well as marine flora and fauna, and exploring the quantitative consequences of toxicokinetic, toxicodynamic and ecological interactions. Increased focus should be put on investigating the ecotoxicology of pharmaceutical mixtures in environmentally realistic settings.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/438/', ['Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department for Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'Sequencing at sea: Challenges and experiences in Ion Torrent PGM sequencing during the 2013 Southern Line Islands Research Expedition', ['Yan Wei Lim', 'Daniel A Cuevas', 'Genivaldo Gueiros Z. Silva', 'Kristen Aguinaldo', 'Elizabeth Dinsdale', 'Andreas F Haas', 'Mark Hatay', 'Savannah E Sanchez', 'Linda W. Kelly', 'Bas E. Dutilh', 'Timothy T. Harkins', 'Clarence C Lee', 'Warren Tom', 'Stuart A Sandin', 'Jennifer Smith', 'Brian Zgliczynski', 'Mark JA Vermeij', 'Forest Rohwer', 'Robert Edwards'], u'2014-07-11', u'Genomics and metagenomics have revolutionized our understanding of marine microbial ecology and the importance of microbes in global geochemical cycles. However, the process of DNA sequencing has always been an abstract extension of the research expedition, completed once the samples were returned to the laboratory. During the 2013 Southern Line Islands Research Expedition, we started the first effort to bring next generation sequencing to some of the most remote locations on our planet. We successfully sequenced twenty six marine microbial genomes, and two marine microbial metagenomes using the Ion Torrent PGM platform on the Merchant Yacht Hanse Explorer. Onboard sequence assembly, annotation, and analysis enabled us to investigate the role of the microbes in the coral reef ecology of these islands and atolls. This analysis identified phospohonate as an important phosphorous source for microbes growing in the Line Islands and reinforced the importance of L-serine in marine microbial ecosystems. Sequencing in the field allowed us to propose hypotheses and conduct experiments and further sampling based on the sequences generated. By eliminating the delay between sampling and sequencing, we enhanced the productivity of the research expedition. By overcoming the hurdles associated with sequencing on a boat in the middle of the Pacific Ocean we proved the flexibility of the sequencing, annotation, and analysis pipelines.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/433/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Genomics', 'Marine Biology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University', u'Computational Sciences Research Center, San Diego State University', u'Centre for Molecular and Biomolecular Informatics, Radboud University Medical Centre', u'Department of Marine Biology, Institute of Biology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro', u'Advanced Applications Group, Life Technologies, Inc.', u'Life Sciences Group, Thermo Fisher Scientific', u'Center for Marine Biodiversity and Conservation, Scripps Institution of Oceanography', u'Caribbean Research and Management of Biodiversity (CARMABI)', u'Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem Dynamics, University of Amsterdam', u'Computer Science, San Diego State University', u'Mathematical and Computer Sciences Division, Argonne National Laboratory']]
[u'What\u2019s for dinner?: Undescribed species of porcini in a commercial packet', ['Bryn TM Dentinger', 'Laura M Suz'], u'2014-07-11', u'Accurate diagnosis of the components of our food and a standard lexicon for clear communication is essential for regulating global food trade and identifying food frauds. Reliable identification of wild collected foods can be particularly difficult, especially when they originate in under-documented regions or belong to poorly known groups such as Fungi. Porcini, one of the most widely traded wild edible mushrooms in the world, are large and conspicuous and they are used as a food both on their own and in processed food products. China is a major exporter of porcini, most of it ending up in Europe. We used DNA-sequencing to identify three species of mushroom contained within a commercial packet of dried Chinese porcini purchased in London. Surprisingly, all three have never been formally described by science and required new scientific names. This demonstrates the ubiquity of unknown fungal diversity even in widely traded commercial food products from one of the most charismatic and least overlooked groups of mushrooms. Our rapid analysis and description makes it possible to reliably identify these species, allowing their harvest to be monitored and their presence tracked in the food chain.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/423/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Food Science and Technology', 'Mycology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Mycology Section, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew']]
[u'Resolving antagonistic interactions among clinical isolates of Acinetobacter baumannii with phylogenetic analysis', ['Rae Heitkamp', 'Jason Sahl', 'Amy Summers', 'Amanda L. Roth', 'Benjamin C Kirkup'], u'2014-07-11', u"Acinetobacter baumannii is a nosocomial species frequently isolated from the traumatic wounds of injured military personnel and increasingly detected in civilian healthcare facilities. Many clinical isolates of A. baumannii are drug resistant, so new treatments are needed for infections. Recently, the ability of strains of conspecific bacteria to inhibit the growth of other strains has been observed in increasing numbers of species. We previously reported on intraspecific semisolid-phase growth inhibition (antagonism) among 94 clinical isolates of A. baumannii. These antagonistic interactions may be the result of genetically-encoded molecules, so more closely related isolates would be expected to produce similar patterns of interactions caused by identically active gene products. However, the phylogeny of clinical A. baumannii below the species level has not been established for this set of isolates.In this study, we used Phylomark to identify three genetic loci that recapitulated a whole-genome phylogeny of published A. baumannii genomes and we created a parsimony-based phylogeny from the 1.2 kilobase concatenated sequences. One clade appeared to exhibit the highest incidence of antagonistic interactions against all other isolates screened, except for itself and one relatively distant clade. This clade's nearest neighbor was susceptible to the most consistent antagonistic activity by the first clade; both of these clades appear to belong to MLST ST1 with reference strain AYE. Other isolates with high rates of antagonistic activity fall outside of ST1. Future studies aim to elucidate the genetic basis of the antagonism phenotype in clinical Acinetobacter, particularly in the most antagonistic isolates. The next step will be to mine these interactions to identify expressed antimicrobial molecules with potential for drug therapy.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/436/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Division of Bacterial Diseases, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research', u'Department of Pathogen Genomics, Translational Genomics Research Institute', u'CBMSE, US Naval Research Laboratory', u'FE Hebert School of Medicine, USUHS']]
[u'Mitochondrial cytochrome b sequence data are not an improvement for species identification in Scleractinian corals', ['John Wares'], u'2014-07-11', u'There are well-known difficulties in using the cytochrome oxidase I (COI) mitochondrial gene region for population genetics and DNA barcoding in corals. A recent study of species divergence in the endemic Caribbean genus Agaricia reinforced such knowledge. However, the growing availability of whole mitochondrial genomes may help indicate more promising gene regions for species delineation. I assembled the whole mitochondrial genome for Agaricia fragilis from Illumina single-end 250bp reads and compared this sequence to that of the congener A. humilis. Although these data suggest that the cytochrome b (CYB) gene region is more promising, comparison of all available Scleractinian CYB sequence data indicates that multilocus approaches are still probably necessary for phylogenetic and population genetic analysis of recently-diverged coral taxa.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/429/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Genetics, University of Georgia']]
[u'Shifts in stability and control effectiveness during evolution of Paraves support aerial maneuvering hypotheses for flight origin', ['Dennis Evangelista', 'Sharlene Cam', 'Tony Huynh', 'Austin Kwong', 'Homayun Mehrabani', 'Kyle Tse', 'Robert Dudley'], u'2014-07-11', u'The capacity for aerial maneuvering was likely a major influence on the evolution of flying animals. Here we evaluate consequences of paravian morphology for aerial performance by quantifying static stability and control effectiveness of physical models for numerous taxa sampled from within the lineage leading to birds (Paraves). Results of aerodynamic testing are mapped phylogenetically to examine how maneuvering characteristics correlate with tail shortening, fore- and hind-wing elaboration, and other morphological features. In the evolution of Paraves we observe shifts from static stability to inherently unstable aerial platforms; control effectiveness also migrated from tails to the forewings. These shifts suggest that some degree of aerodynamic control and and capacity for maneuvering preceded the evolution of strong power stroke. The timing of shifts also suggests features normally considered in light of development of a power stroke may play important roles in control.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/435/', ['Biophysics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California', u'Department of Bioengineering, University of California', u'Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California', u'Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute']]
[u'A survey of dinosaur diversity by clade, age, place of discovery and year of description', ['Michael P Taylor'], u'2014-07-11', u'Dinosaur diversity is analyzed in terms of the number of valid genera within each major clade, Mesozoic age, place of discovery and year of description. Aves (Archaeopteryx + Neornithes) is excluded. Nomina nuda and nomina dubia are not counted. The results show 451 valid dinosaurian genera at the end of 2001, of which 282 are saurischian (112 sauropodomorphs and 170 theropods, including 93 coelurosaurs) and 169 ornithischian, including 11 pachycephalosaurs, 26 ceratopsians, 60 ornithopods, 12 stegosaurs, and 38 ankylosaurs. Thirty-eight genera arose in the Triassic, 124 in the Jurassic, and 289 in the Cretaceous, of which a disproportionately high number \u2014 85 and 47 \u2014 are from the Campanian and Maastrichtian. The Kimmeridgian was the most productive age, with an average of 11.18 new genera per million years. The Kimmeridgian saw an unparalleled boom in sauropod diversity, with 20 new sauropod genera arising in its 3.4 million years, an average of one new sauropod every 170,000 years. Asia was the most productive continent with 149 genera, followed by North America (135), Europe (66), South America (52), Africa (39), Australasia (9), and finally Antarctica (1). Just three countries account for more than half of all dinosaur diversity, with 231 genera between them: the U.S.A (105), China (73), and Mongolia (53). The top six countries also include Argentina (44), England (30), and Canada (30), and together provide 335 dinosaur genera, nearly three quarters of the total. The rate of naming new dinosaurs has increased hugely in recent years, with more genera named in the last 19 years than in all the preceding 159 years. The results of these analyses must be interpreted with care, as diversity in ancient ecosystems is perceived through a series of preservational and human filters yielding observed diversity patterns that may be very different from the actual diversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/434/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol']]
[u'Effect of mutualist partner identity on plant demography', ['Emilio M Bruna', 'Thiago J Izzo', 'Brian D Inouye', 'Heraldo L Vasconcelos'], u'2014-07-09', u'Mutualisms play a central role in the origin and maintenance of biodiversity. Because many mutualisms have strong demographic effects, interspecific variation in partner quality could have important consequences for population dynamics. Nevertheless, few studies have quantified how a mutualist partner influences population growth rates, and still fewer have compared the demographic impacts of multiple partner species. We used integral projection models parameterized with three years of census data to compare the demographic effects of two ant species \u2013 Crematogaster laevis and Pheidole minutula \u2013 on populations of the Amazonian ant-plant Maieta guianensis. Estimated population growth rates were positive (i.e., \u03bb>1) for all ant-plant combinations. However, populations with only Pheidole minutula had the highest asymptotic growth rate (\u03bb=1.23), followed by those colonized by Crematogaster laevis (\u03bb=1.16), and in which the partner ant alternated between C. laevis and P. minutula at least once during our study (\u03bb=1.15). Our results indicate that the short-term superiority of a mutualist partner \u2013 in this system P. minutula is a better defender of plants against herbivores than C. laevis \u2013 can have long-term demographic consequences. Furthermore, the demographic effects of switching among alternative partners appear to be context-dependent, with no benefits to plants hosting C. laevis but a major cost of switching to plants hosting P. minutula. Our results underscore the importance of expanding the study of mutualisms beyond the study of pair-wise interactions to consider the demographic costs and benefits of interacting with different, and multiple, potential partners.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/368/', ['Ecology'], [u'Wildlife Ecology and Conservation & Center for Latin American Studies, University of Florida', u'Biological Dynamics of Forest Fragments Project, INPA-STRI', u'Center for Latin American Studies, University of Florida', u'Departamento de Bot\xe2nica e Ecologia, Universidade Federal do Mato Grosso', u'Department of Biological Science, Florida State University', u'Instituto de Biologia, Universidade Federal de Uberl\xe2ndia']]
[u'The effects of improvisational theatre (improv) vs. group television watching on cognitive ability and mood in people with age-related memory complaints', ['Dustin Harris', 'Justin Koh', 'Andrew C Lai', 'Josue Fernandez'], u'2014-07-05', u'As people age, there is a high chance their cognitive abilities will decline. The Baby Boomer population will soon reach an age where this is a major problem. As cognitive ability declines, so does quality of life. Everyday, 10,000 baby boomers turn 65 and this trend will continue for the next 15 years. With potential millions in need of a solution, cost is a major issue as well. Different forms of stimulation, like music and puzzles, have been shown to improve cognitive ability. Improvisational theatre is a form of stimulation that has not been thoroughly researched in older adults. This is a randomized control pilot study for utility and preliminary efficacy of improvisational theatre on cognitive ability and mood in older adults with age-related memory complaints. 11 elderly participants with age-related memory complaints from an assisted living center were randomized into an improv class (n=5) or a television watching control group (n=6). The improv group participated in an improv class once a week, for 8 weeks, lasting one hour per session. The passive stimulation group watched television or a movie for one hour a week at the same time as the improv class, for 8 weeks. The participants were given the following surveys one week prior to the start of the study and again the day of the last session: Montreal Cognitive Assessment, Verbal Fluency Test, Letter-Number Sequencing Test, Geriatric Depression Scale, Memory Functioning Questionnaire and the Functional Activities Questionnaire. The improv group demonstrated an average improvement in executive function, memory self-appraisal, phonemic cognition, and a decrease in mild cognitive impairment. The verbal fluency test, which measures phonemic cognition showed significant improvement with a p-value of 0.037. In the television watching group, there was an average improvement in executive function, phonemic cognition and some aspects of memory self-appraisal. None of which were significant. No adverse events occurred during the study. This study shows that improv has the potential to improve phonemic cognition because there was a significant increase in the study. Though the other areas that were tested (depression, executive function, working memory, memory self-appraisal or mild cognitive impairment) did not improve significantly, all either improved more than the control group or regressed less than the control group. Since this was the first study of its kind, more researchers should explore the effects of improv on cognition in elderly persons. Subjectively, the improv participants improved greatly in their ability to follow and remain active during the various games.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/431/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences, Semel Institute, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA']]
[u'Adeno-associated virus Type 2 Rep proteins mediate integration of lentiviral vectors', ['Victor J McAlister', 'Anthony T Craig', 'Roland A Owens'], u'2014-07-04', u'Aims: Adeno-associated virus type 2 (AAV2) is a naturally defective human parvovirus that is being developed as a gene therapy vector. In dividing cells, AAV2 DNA persists by integration into the host chromosomes. AAV2 is unique among mammalian viruses in its ability to integrate preferentially into a particular locus within human chromosome 19, designated AAVS1(also known as Mbs 85). The AAV2 Rep68 and Rep78 proteins mediate this integration. Recent data suggest that Rep68 and Rep78 can mediate integration of non-AAV2 DNA with free ends. To test this hypothesis, we targeted insertion of different lentiviral vectors to AAVS1. Methods: Cells were co-infected with wild-type AAV2, and integrase-proficient or integrase-deficient lentivirus vectors. A highly specific PCR-based assay was used to detect lentivirus integration at AAVS1. Similar experiments were performed using lentiviral vectors containing the AAV2 rep gene. Results: All lentiviral vectors tested integrated at AAVS1, if the rep gene was present either within the lentiviral vector or supplied in trans. All that was required for integration at AAVS1 was the amino acid sequence shared between Rep68 and Rep78. The results were similar with integrase-proficient or integrase-deficient lentiviral vectors. Conclusions: The inclusion of the rep gene with lentiviral vectors may produce more predictable integration patterns.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/326/', ['Biotechnology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Laboratory of Cell and Molecular Biology, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human Services', u'Department of Genetics and Human Genetics, Howard University Graduate School']]
[u'Study on antibacterial activity of Calotropis procera', ['Muhammad Muzammal'], u'2014-07-02', u'Comparative study of plant extracts crude and aqueous, methanolic and ethanolic with antibiotics, provide evidence that calotropis procera extracts has the similar antibacterial activity as these antibiotics against test pathogens i.e. Salmonella typhi and E.coli. The analysis of antimicrobial activity of aqueous, methanolic and ethanolic extract of leaves and flower of Calotropis procera was carried out in disc method and also determined MIC value at 600nm through optical density using spectrophotometer. The zone of inhibition produced by extracts was examined and compares it with zone produced by antibiotics. The effect exhibited by ethanolic extract of leaves and flower was significantly greater than the aqueous and methanolic extract of leaves and flower. Crude extracts i.e. latex, leaves, fruit and flower crude extracts. Among them, flower crude extracts shows similar zone of inhibition to test anitibiotics.while in MIC value, we made different concentration of extracts and antibiotics.i.e for crude we made 25%, 50%.75% and 100% concentration of crude juice and for the aqueous, methanolic and ethanolic we made 0.5mg/mL,1mg/mL,2mg/mL,3mg/mL,4mg/mL, 5mg/mL and 6mg/mL in Dimethyl salfoxide, and same antibiotics concentration. Aqueous leaves extracts show MIC at 0.5mg/ml against E.coli while against Salmonella it shows MIC at 1mg/ml... We also determine phytochemical analysis for presences of different compounds in crude extracts. The obtained results provide a support for the use of Calotropis procera, in traditional medicine and suggest its further advance investigation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/430/', ['Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Gomal University']]
[u'The second axillary in Hymenoptera', ['Istvan Miko', 'Andy R Deans'], u'2014-07-01', u'The wing base of basal hymenopterans (Insecta) have never been properly described perhaps due to the difficulties of its visualization and understanding the 3D relationships between wing base components. Novel 3D visualization techniques such as microCT and Confocal Laser Scanning Microscopy (CLSM) allow us to provide easily digestible morphological data. The wing base of four basal Hymenoptera and 10 apocritan species have been imaged with CLSM and dissected under a stereomicroscope. The second axillary is composed of two sclerites (on on the dorsal wing membrane and one on the ventral in Macroxyela, Xyela and Athalia whereas it is represented by a single sclerite traversing the wing in other Hymenoptera. Consequences related to this observation as well are drawn and future directions in Hymenoptera wing base studies are provided.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/428/', ['Biodiversity', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Entomology, Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Darwin and Fisher meet at biotech: On the potential of computational molecular evolution in industry', ['Maria Anisimova'], u'2014-06-28', u'Today computational molecular evolution and bioinformatics are vibrant research areas that flourish on large amounts of complex datasets generated by new generation technologies \u2013 from full genomes and proteomes to microbiomes, metabolomes and epigenomes. Yet the foundations for successful mining and the analyses of such data were established long before the structure of the DNA was discovered. Darwin\u2019s theory of evolution by means of natural selection not only remains relevant today, but also provides solid ground for computational research with a variety of applications. The data size and its complexity require empirical scientists to work in close collaboration with experts in computational science, modeling and statistics, as Sir R. Fisher has beautifully demonstrated in early 20th century. Particularly, modern computational methods for evaluating selection in molecular sequences are very useful for generating biological hypotheses and candidate gene sets for follow-up experiments. Evolutionary analyses of selective pressures in genomic data have high potential for applications, since natural selection is a leading force in function conservation, in adaptation to emerging pathogens, new environments, and plays key role in immune and resistance systems. At this stage, pharma and biotech industries can successfully use this potential, taking the initiative to enhance their research and development with the state-of the art bioinformatics approaches. This mini-review provides a quick \u201cwhy-and-how\u201d guide to the current approaches that apply the evolutionary principles of natural selection to real life problems \u2013 from drug target validation, vaccine design and protein engineering to applications in agriculture, ecology and conservation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/427/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics'], [u'Institute of Applied Simulations, Zurich University of Applied Sciences']]
[u'Preface of Proceedings of GNOME 2014 \u2014 Festschrift for Gaston Gonnet', ['Maria Anisimova', 'Christophe Dessimoz'], u'2014-06-27', u'It is an immense pleasure to present this Festschrift on the occasion of Professor Gaston H. Gonnet\u2019s retirement. This volume accompanies the associated symposium Gonnet is Not Only about Molecular Evolution (GNOME) on the 4th of July 2014 at ETH Zurich. Born in Uruguay, Gaston completed his undergraduate studies in Montevideo before going to Waterloo, Canada, where he completed his Master\u2019s and, just less than two years later, his PhD degree under the supervision of J. Alan George.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/426/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Institute of Applied Simulations, Z\xfcrich University of Applied Sciences', u'Genetics, Evolution & Environment; Computer Science, University College London', u'Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics']]
[u'Bio-inspired design of ice-retardant devices based on benthic marine invertebrates: the effect of surface texture', ['Homayun Mehrabani', 'Neil Ray', 'Kyle Tse', 'Dennis Evangelista'], u'2014-06-27', u'Growth of ice on surfaces poses a challenge for both organisms and for devices that come into contact with liquids below the freezing point. Resistance of some organisms to ice formation and growth, either in subtidal environments (e.g. Antarctic anchor ice), or in environments with moisture and cold air (e.g. plants, intertidal) begs examination of how this is accomplished. Several factors may be important in promoting or mitigating ice formation. As a start, here we examine the effect of surface texture alone. We tested four candidate surfaces, inspired by hard-shelled marine invertebrates and constructed using a three-dimensional printing process. We screened biological and artificial samples for ice formation and accretion in submerged conditions using previous methods, and developed a new test to examine ice formation from surface droplets as might be encountered in environments with moist, cold air. It appears surface texture plays only a small role in delaying the onset of ice formation: a stripe feature (corresponding to patterning found on valves of blue mussels, Mytilus edulis, or on the spines of the Antarctic sea urchin Sterechinus neumayeri) slowed ice formation an average of 25% compared to a grid feature (corresponding to patterning found on sub-polar butterclams, Saxidomas nuttali). The geometric dimensions of the features have only a small (~6%) effect on ice formation. Surface texture affects ice formation, but does not explain by itself the large variation in ice formation and species-specific ice resistance observed in other work. This suggests future examination of other factors, such as material elastic properties and surface coatings, and their interaction with surface pattern.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/425/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Bioengineering, University of California', u'Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'The exhaustive genome comparison effort. A quarter-century later', ['Steven A. Benner', 'Kevin M. Bradley', 'Stephan G. Chamberlain'], u'2014-06-26', u'A quarter century after the Benner and Gonnet groups began their collaboration in evolutionary bioinformatics, evolution-based functional genomics is a field with considerable scope. Even with the remarkable advances in computing power over this period, the explosion of data derived from genomic and protein sources have required more and more sophisticated approaches be developed and utilized. We describe here new software combined with data organization techniques and illustrate how we are harnessing these to place physiological function of protein sequence data using natural history.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/424/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'Foundation for Applied Molecular Evolution']]
[u'The pupillary light response reflects exogenous attention and inhibition of return', ['Sebastiaan Mathot', 'Edwin S. Dalmaijer', 'Jonathan Grainger', 'Stefan Van der Stigchel'], u'2014-06-26', u"Here we show that the pupillary light response reflects exogenous (involuntary) shifts of attention and inhibition of return. Participants fixated in the center of a display that was divided into a bright and a dark half. An exogenous cue attracted attention to the bright or dark side of the display. Initially, the pupil constricted when the bright, as compared to the dark side of the display was cued, reflecting a shift of attention towards the exogenous cue. Crucially, this pattern reversed about one second after cue presentation. This later-occurring, relative dilation (when the bright side was cued) reflected disengagement from the previously attended location, analogous to the behavioral phenomenon of inhibition of return. Indeed, we observed a strong correlation between 'pupillary inhibition' and behavioral inhibition of return. We conclude that the pupillary light response is a complex eye movement that reflects how we selectively parse and interpret visual input.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/422/', ['Neuroscience', 'Ophthalmology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive UMR 7290, CNRS', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Department of Experimental Psychology, Helmholtz Institute, Utrecht University']]
[u"Psychometric properties of the Children's Revised Impact of Events Scale (CRIES) with Bangladeshi children and adolescents", ['Farah Deeba', 'Ronald M Rapee', 'Tania Prvan'], u'2014-06-26', u'Identification of possible cases suffering post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is important, especially in developing countries where traumatic events are typically prevalent. The Children\u2019s Revised Impact of Events Scale is a reliable and valid measure that has two brief versions (13 items and 8 items) to assess reactions to traumatic events among young people. The current study evaluated the psychometric properties of both versions of the CRIES in a sample of 1342 children and adolescents aged 9-17 years (M=12.3 years, SD=2.12) recruited from six districts of Bangladesh. A sub-group of 120 children from four schools was re-tested on the measures within 3.5 weeks. Confirmatory factor analysis supported factor structures similar to those found in other studies for both versions of the CRIES. Multiple group confirmatory factor analysis showed gender and age-group differences within the sample, supporting established age and gender differences in prevalence of PTSD symptoms. Analyses also indicated moderate to excellent internal consistency and test-retest reliability and clear discriminant and convergent validity. These data support use of both the CRIES-13 and CRIES-8 to provide quick and psychometrically sound assessment of symptoms of PTSD among children and adolescents from Bangla-speaking communities.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/337/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Centre for Emotional Health, Department of Psychology, Faculty of Human Sciences, Macquarie University', u'Department of Clinical Psychology, Faculty of Biological Sciences, University of Dhaka', u'Department of Statistics, Faculty of Science, Macquarie University']]
[u'Speeding up all-against-all protein comparisons while maintaining sensitivity by considering subsequence-level homology', ['Lucas D Wittwer', 'Ivana Pilizota', 'Adrian M Altenhoff', 'Christophe Dessimoz'], u'2014-06-25', u'Orthology inference and other sequence analyses across multiple genomes typically start by performing exhaustive pairwise sequence comparisons, a process referred to as \u201call-against-all\u201d. As this process scales quadratically in terms of the number of sequences analysed, this step can become a bottleneck, thus limiting the number of genomes that can be simultaneously analysed. Here, we explored ways of speeding-up the all-against-all step while maintaining its sensitivity. By exploiting the transitivity of homology and, crucially, ensuring that homology is defined in terms of consistent protein subsequences, our proof-of-concept decreased the time complexity by ~75% while recovering >99.6% of all homologs identified by the full all-against-all procedure on empirical sequences from bacteria and fungi. In comparison, state-of-the-art k-mer approaches are orders of magnitude faster but only recover 3-14% of all homologous pairs. We also outline ideas to further improve the speed and recall of the new approach. An open source implementation is provided as part of the OMA standalone software at http://omabrowser.org/standalone .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/421/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Genetics, Evolution & Environment; Computer Science, University College London', u'Department of Computer Science, ETH Zurich', u'Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics']]
[u'An ontogenetic perspective on the evolution of shell size and shell shape in the land snail genus Plectostoma', ['Thor-Seng Liew', 'Menno Schilthuizen'], u'2014-06-24', u'The rampant convergent and parallel evolution in shell form in the Gastropoda is well known. Many studies focus on the functional drivers which have been regarded as a major force in shell evolution. There is, however, a scarcity in studies that aim at understanding shell form evolution with respect to their ontogeny. Hence, we investigated the evolution of shell form in the micro-landsnail genus Plectostoma (Diplommatinidae) from the viewpoint of shell ontogeny. We examined the aperture ontogeny profiles that describe how aperture form and growth trajectory change along the shell ontogeny, and how the aperture ontogeny profiles relate to the observed shell forms. We also estimated the phylogeny of Plectostoma species, and examined patterns of character evolution for shell form. Our study revealed a general issue in the characterisation of shell shape and demonstrated how shell shape differences can be expressed as differences in the ontogeny of morphospace. It is clear that in Plectostoma the phylogenetic history does not prevent the course of shell ontogeny, and the resultant form. Finally, each species has a unique aperture ontogeny profile that determines its shell shape while retaining a conserved developmental program that maintains shell size.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/420/', ['Biodiversity', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute Biology Leiden, Leiden Univerisity', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation, Universiti Malaysia Sabah']]
[u'HIV-positive parents disclosure-related preparation activities in Kenya', ['Grace Gachanja', 'Gary J Burkholder', 'Aimee Ferraro'], u'2014-06-23', u"Background. HIV disclosure from parent to child is a complex and challenging issue that needs to be approached carefully. Little is known about how parents prepare for and perform disclosure to children in resource-poor nations and what resources are needed. This study was conducted to describe the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya.\nMethods. This qualitative phenomenological study's data was collected using in-depth semi-structured interviews with 34 participants consisting of HIV-positive parents, HIV-positive and negative children, and healthcare professionals. The Van Kaam method was used to analyze the data.\nResults. Parents take years to prepare for disclosure, proceeding when they perceive themselves capable and ready; and their children are receptive to the news. Preparation activities include thinking about and making disclosure plans, reading information, teaching children about the disease without disclosure while improving the parent-child relationship, praying regularly and attending religious activities, seeking counseling, and attending support group meetings.\nConclusion. Parents perform a number of activities to get themselves and their children ready for disclosure. These activities are crucial in the timely delivery of disclosure. Understanding the importance of these activities helps healthcare professionals assist parents to deliver disclosure faster after diagnosis of illness.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/417/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'Walden University', u'Social and Behavioral Sciences and Public Health, Walden University', u'University Partnerships, Laureate Education, Inc.']]
[u'Child, parent, and healthcare professionals\u2019 perspectives on HIV infection status disclosure to children', ['Grace Gachanja', 'Gary J Burkholder', 'Aimee Ferraro'], u'2014-06-23', u"Background. HIV disclosure is a challenging process for parents and healthcare professionals. The majority of HIV-infected persons live in Sub-Saharan Africa where HIV disclosure guidelines for a parent's and a child's illness are nonexistent. While there are two theoretical models of HIV disclosure, their utility in explaining disclosure in African cultures is largely unknown.\nMethods. This qualitative phenomenological study was conducted in Kenya to describe the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process. Thirty four participants consisting of 16 HIV-positive parents, 7 HIV-positive children, 5 HIV-negative children, and 6 healthcare professionals were engaged in in-depth, semistructured interviews. Interview data were analyzed using the modified Van Kaam method.\nResults. HIV disclosure is a complex process involving factors such as a parent's and child's state of health, ART consumption, stigma/discrimination, and sexuality concerns. Parents take years to prepare for and perform disclosure of theirs and/or their children's illnesses to their infected and noninfected children. They perform disclosure when they feel ready in stages, based on the birth order of their children, the perception of \u201cthe right time,\u201d the child's understanding and maturity level, and whose illness(es) they intend to disclose at the time of disclosure.\nConclusion. HIV disclosure is challenging and each disclosure session performed is planned and geared to the particular child receiving disclosure. Parents and healthcare professionals are challenged by disclosure and can benefit from creation of HIV disclosure guidelines accompanied by culturally sensitive manuals and training programs aimed at parents and healthcare professionals to ease the process of disclosure.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/418/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'Walden University', u'Laureate Education, Inc.']]
[u'A couple\u2019s marital disharmony and its psychological effects on their children during the HIV disclosure process in Kenya', ['Grace Gachanja'], u'2014-06-22', u'HIV-positive parents are challenged with disclosure to their children. Limited published data exists on how HIV-positive parents perform disclosure to all their children in the household. To start addressing this gap, data is presented on a couple\u2019s HIV disclosure experiences to all their children. The couple participated in a larger study conducted to understand the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya. Each underwent an individualized in-depth semi-structured interview. Their interviews were transcribed and transferred into NVivo 8 for analysis using the Van Kaam method. Three themes emerged including HIV testing, full disclosure delivery accompanied by marital disharmony, and post-disclosure psychological effects on the family. The couple\u2019s narration of their diagnoses, and disclosure experiences to their children differed significantly. Ongoing poor paternal health caused persistent inquisitive questions from children. A poor paternal-children relationship, accompanied with his avoidance and non-involvement in disclosure matters caused the mother to fully disclose both parents\u2019 illnesses to the four oldest children. These children were affected by disclosure and held animosity towards their father. One had an emotional outburst directed at the father, while another still displayed anger and withdrawal years later. Therefore, the couple was hesitant to fully disclose their illnesses to their youngest son and differed in how they wanted to disclose to him. HIV-positive parents with poor relationships among family members before HIV testing and/or disclosure should be provided with intense counseling aimed at increasing family cohesion. Extra support before, during, and after disclosure may be required for these families to increase positive outcomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/419/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'HIV', 'Public Health'], [u'Walden University']]
[u'What the future held: Childhood psychosocial adversity is associated with health deterioration through adulthood in a cohort of British women', ['Daniel Nettle'], u'2014-06-20', u'Childhood psychosocial adversity is associated with accelerated onset of reproductive effort in women. Adaptive explanations for this phenomenon are built on the assumption that greater childhood psychosocial adversity is statistically associated with having a shorter period of healthy adult life during which reproduction will be possible. However, this critical assumption is never actually tested using individual-level longitudinal data. In this study, I revisit a large, longitudinally-studied cohort of British women. In an earlier paper, we showed that a simple index of psychosocial adversity in the first seven years of life predicted age at first pregnancy in a dose-dependent manner. Here, I show that the same index of adversity also predicts accelerated deterioration of health across the potentially reproductive period, and increased levels of the inflammatory biomarker c-reactive protein at age 44-46. These associations are robust to controlling for adult socioeconomic position, and do not appear to be solely a consequence of accelerated reproductive schedule. I argue that childhood psychosocial adversity may cause latent somatic damage that will, in adulthood, accelerate age-related physical decline. This provides a compelling adaptive rationale for the accelerated reproductive schedules observed in women who experience childhood psychosocial adversity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/213/', ['Anthropology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Epidemiology', "Women's Health"], [u'Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle University']]
[u'SKIMMR: Facilitating knowledge discovery in life sciences by machine-aided skim reading', ['Vit Novacek', 'Gully APC Burns'], u'2014-06-19', u"Background: Unlike full reading, 'skim-reading' involves the process of looking quickly over information in an attempt to cover more material whilst still being able to retain a superficial view of the underlying content. Within this work, we specifically emulate this natural human activity by providing a dynamic graph-based view of entities automatically extracted from text. For the extraction, we use shallow parsing, co-occurrence analysis and semantic similarity computation techniques. Our main motivation is to assist biomedical researchers and clinicians in coping with increasingly large amounts of potentially relevant articles that are being published ongoingly in life sciences. Methods: To construct the high-level network overview of articles, we extract weighted binary statements from the text. We consider two types of these statements, co-occurrence and similarity, both organised in the same distributional representation (i.e., in a vector-space model). For the co-occurrence weights, we use point-wise mutual information that indicates the degree of non-random association between two co-occurring entities. For computing the similarity statement weights, we use cosine distance based on the relevant co-occurrence vectors. These statements are used to build fuzzy indices of terms, statements and provenance article identifiers, which support fuzzy querying and subsequent result ranking. These indexing and querying processes are then used to construct a graph-based interface for searching and browsing entity networks extracted from articles, as well as articles relevant to the networks being browsed. Last but not least, we describe a methodology for automated experimental evaluation of the presented approach. The method uses formal comparison of the graphs generated by our tool to relevant gold standards based on manually curated PubMed, TREC challenge and MeSH data. Results: We provide a web-based prototype (called `SKIMMR') that generates a network of inter-related entities from a set of documents which a user may explore through our interface. When a particular area of the entity network looks interesting to a user, the tool displays the documents that are the most relevant to those entities of interest currently shown in the network. We present this as a methodology for browsing a collection of research articles. To illustrate the practical applicability of SKIMMR, we present examples of its use in the domains of Spinal Muscular Atrophy and Parkinson's Disease. Finally, we report on the results of experimental evaluation using the two domains and one additional dataset based on the TREC challenge. The results show that the presented method for machine-aided skim reading outperforms tools like PubMed regarding focused browsing and informativeness of the browsing context.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/352/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Computational Science'], [u'INSIGHT at NUI Galway, National University of Ireland Galway', u'Information Sciences Institute, University of Southern California']]
[u'Analysis of Protein Kinase Domain and Tyrosine Kinase or Serine/Threonine Kinase signatures Involved In Lung Cancer', ['Manas  Ranjan Barik', 'Tripti Kaur Bagga', 'Anupam Bhattacharya', 'Bhagath Kumar Palaka', 'Kasi Viswanath Kotapati', 'Dinakara Rao Ampasala'], u'2014-06-16', u'Lung cancer results when normal check and balance system of cell division is disrupted and ultimately the cells divide and proliferate in an uncontrollable manner forming a mass of cells in our body, known as tumor. Frequent mutations in Protein Kinase Domain alter the process of phosphorylation which results in abnormality in regulations of cell apoptosis and differentiation. Tyrosine Protein kinases and Serine/Threonine Protein Kinases are the two broad classes of protein kinases in accordance to their substrate specificity. The study of Tyrosine protein kinase and serine Kinase coding regions have the importance of sequence and structure determinants of cancer-causing mutations from mutation-dependent activation process. In the present study, we analyzed huge amounts of data extracted from various biological databases and NCBI. Out of the 534 proteins that may play a role in lung cancer, 71 proteins were selected that are likely to be actively involved in lung cancer. These proteins were evaluated by employing Multiple Sequence Alignment and a Phylogenetic tree was constructed using Neighbor-Joining Algorithm. From the constructed phylogenetic tree, protein kinase domain and motif study was performed. The results of this study revealed that the presence of Protein Kinase Domain and Tyrosine or Serine/Threonine Kinase signatures in some of the proteins are mutated, which play a dominant role in the pathogenesis of Lung Cancer and these may be addressed with the help of inhibitors to develop an efficient anticancer drugs. Furthermore, the present study contributes to the possibility that genetic components are more important in Lung Cancer as compared to environmental and smoking(carcinogens) factors.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/414/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'Center for Bioformatics, Pondicherry University', u'Department Of Biotechnology, Amity University', u'Bioinformatics, Jaivik Data Consulting']]
[u'Meta-analysis of resting-state fMRI in depression: generating spatial hypotheses for potential clinical applications', ['Benedikt Sundermann', 'Mona Olde lutke Beverborg', 'Bettina Pfleiderer'], u'2014-06-13', u'Information derived from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during wakeful rest has been introduced as a candidate diagnostic biomarker in unipolar major depressive disorder (MDD). Multiple reports of resting state fMRI in MDD describe group effects. Such prior knowledge can be adopted to pre-select potentially discriminating features, for example for diagnostic classification models with the aim to improve diagnostic accuracy. Purpose of this analysis was to consolidate spatial information about alterations of spontaneous brain activity in MDD to serve such feature selection and as a secondary aim to improve understanding of disease mechanisms. 32 studies were included in final analyses. Coordinates extracted from the original reports were assigned to two categories based on directionality of findings. Meta-analyses were calculated using the non-additive activation likelihood estimation approach with coordinates organized by subject group to account for non-independent samples. Results were compared with established resting state networks (RSNs) and spatial representations of recently introduced temporally independent functional modes (TFMs) of spontaneous brain activity. Converging evidence revealed a distributed pattern of brain regions with increased or decreased spontaneous activity in MDD. The most distinct finding was hyperactivity/ hyperconnectivity presumably reflecting the interaction of cortical midline structures (posterior default mode network components associated with self-referential processing and the subgenual anterior cingulate cortex) with lateral frontal areas related to externally-directed cognition. One particular TFM seems to better comprehend the findings than classical RSNs. Alterations that can be captured by resting state fMRI show considerable overlap with those identifiable with other neuroimaging modalities though differing in some aspects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/412/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Department of Clinical Radiology, University Hospital M\xfcnster']]
[u'Detailed comparison of two popular variant calling packages for exome and targeted exon studies', ['Charles D Warden', 'Aaron W Adamson', 'Susan L Neuhausen', 'Xiwei Wu'], u'2014-06-12', u'The Genome Analysis Toolkit (GATK) is commonly used for variant calling of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and small insertions and deletions (indels) from short-read sequencing data aligned against a reference genome. There have been a number of variant calling comparisons against GATK, but an equally comprehensive comparison for VarScan not yet been performed. More specifically, we compared four lists of variants called by GATK (using the UnifiedGenotyper and the HaplotypeCaller algorithms, with and without filtering low quality variants) and three lists of variants called using VarScan (with varying sets of parameters). Variant calling was performed on three datasets (1 targeted exon dataset and 2 exome datasets), each with approximately a dozen subjects. We found that running VarScan with a conservative set of parameters (referred to as \u201cVarScan-Cons\u201d) resulted in a high quality gene list, with high concordance (>97%) when compared to high quality variants called by the GATK UnifiedGenotyper and HaplotypeCaller. These conservative parameters result in decreased sensitivity, but the VarScan-Cons variant list could still recover 84-88% of the high-quality GATK SNPs in the exome datasets. We also assessed the impact of pre-processing (e.g., indel realignment and quality score base recalibration using GATK). In most cases, these pre-processing steps had only a modest impact on the variant calls, but the importance of the pre-processing steps varied between datasets and variant callers. More broadly, we believe the metrics used for comparison in this study can be useful in assessing the quality of variant calls in the context of a specific experimental design. As an example, a limited number of variant calling comparisons are also performed on two additional variant callers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/403/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics'], [u'Integrative Genomics Core, Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, City of Hope', u'Department of Population Sciences, City of Hope National Medical Center']]
[u'Effect of obesity and exercise on the expression of the novel myokines, Myonectin and Irisin', ['Jonathan M Peterson', 'Ryan Mart', 'Cherie E Bond'], u'2014-06-10', u'Metabolic dysfunction in skeletal muscle is a major contributor to the development of type 2 diabetes. Endurance exercise training has long been established as an effective means to directly restore skeletal muscle glucose and lipid uptake and metabolism. However, in addition to the direct effects of skeletal muscle on glucose and lipids, there is renewed interest in the ability of skeletal muscle to coordinate metabolic activity of other tissues, such as adipose tissue and liver. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of endurance exercise on the expression level of two novel muscle-derived secreted factors, or myokines, Myonectin and Fibronectin type III domain containing 5 (Fndc5), the precursor for Irisin. Methods: We used the diaphragm muscle from both the obese Zucker rat (OZR) and lean Zucker Rat (LZR) with 9 weeks of aerobic training on a motorized treadmill. We examined the gene expression of 12 commonly used reference genes and performed quantitative real-time PCR analysis on the gene expression of Myonectin and Fndc5. Results: Of the 12 commonly used PCR reference genes tested we were able to establish that Hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase 1 (HPRT1) and lactate dehydrogenase A (Ldha) remained stable in the diaphragm muscle regardless of obesity or exercise training. Interestingly, we also concluded that the commonly used reference genes: beta-Actin, beta-2-microglobulin, Non-POU domain containing, octamer-binding, Peptidylprolyl isomerase H, 18S ribosomal rna, TATA box binding protein and Transferrin receptor were all found to be altered by the combination of exercise and obesity. Our study showed that the diaphragm muscle of the OZR had significantly higher expression levels of both myonectin and Fndc5. Exercise training had no effect on the expression level of Fndc5, but significantly lowered the gene expression of myonectin in both the LZR and OZR groups. Conclusion: Contrary to prior findings regarding the regulation of Fndc5 and myonectin we show that myonectin and Fndc5 expression are both increased in the OZR model of obesity. Further, long-term exercise training decreases myonectin levels, which is opposite, the effect reported with short-term exercise. However, this report confirms earlier work showing that Fndc5 gene expression is not altered by chronic exercise.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/410/', ['Molecular Biology', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Kinesiology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Department of Health Sciences, East Tennessee State University', u'Quillen College of Medicine, East Tennessee State University', u'Department of Biomedical Sciences, Quillen College of Medicine, East Tennessee State University']]
[u'GroopM: An automated tool for the recovery of population genomes from related metagenomes', ['Michael Imelfort', 'Donovan Parks', 'Ben J Woodcroft', 'Paul Dennis', 'Philip Hugenholtz', 'Gene W Tyson'], u'2014-06-10', u'Metagenomic binning methods that leverage differential population abundances in microbial communities (differential coverage) are emerging as a complementary approach to conventional composition-based binning. Here we introduce GroopM, an automated binning tool that primarily uses differential coverage to obtain high fidelity population genomes from related metagenomes. We demonstrate the effectiveness of GroopM using synthetic and real-world metagenomes, and show that GroopM produces results comparable with more time consuming, labor-intensive methods.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/409/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Australian Centre for Ecogenomics, School of Chemistry and Molecular Biosciences, The University of Queensland']]
[u'A case study demonstrates a democratic methodology for making risk based decisions', ['Steve Corin', 'Asela Atapattu'], u'2014-06-09', u'Risk is a subjective notion, but the limits between our role as risk practitioners and decision makers can become blurred. A belief that the public misunderstands risk and the need to control the process are two barriers to effective engagement. We believe that a lack of engagement and the ability to enable citizens to decide their own future can contribute to the controversy we see on important public debates. In our study, using an existing risk assessment and decision, we survey four stakeholder groups in New Zealand in order to determine how they rate the costs and benefits. Our survey methodology incorporates a continuous scale along three axes that represent the biophysical outcomes of economic, environmental and human health. This design enables costs and benefits to be traded-off between individuals, giving them a representative voice. We use these results to investigate whether or not it would be feasible to use such an approach in order to make decisions, and what this may mean. Our results indicate that public decision making is possible, and in this case broadly the public view broadly agrees with the official decision. Such an approach holds promise for expanding the role in the risk assessment process.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/408/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Synapt Consulting', u'New Organisms, Environmental Protection Authority']]
[u'Bird-window collisions in the summer breeding season', ['Stephen B. Hager', 'Matthew E. Craig'], u'2014-06-09', u'Birds that reside in urban settings face numerous human-related threats to survival, including mortality from bird-window collisions (BWCs). Our current understanding of this issue has largely been driven by data collected during spring and fall migration, and patterns of collision mortality during the summer breeding season remain relatively unexplored. We assessed BWCs during four breeding seasons (2009- 2012) at a site in northwestern Illinois, USA, by comparing the abundance, richness, migratory class, and age of the species living around buildings to species mortally wounded by window collisions. We also systematically assessed the daily timing of BWCs throughout the breeding season. We documented BWCs in 4 of 25 (16%) species and 7 of 21 (33%) species in 2009 and 2010, respectively. The relationship between BWCs and abundance depended on age. For adults, BWCs were highest in the least abundant species, e.g., Red-eyed Vireo (Vireo olivaceus), and lowest in species with high abundance values, e.g., House Sparrow (Passer domesticus). For juveniles, mortality was greatest for the most abundant species, and the American Robin (Turdus migratorius) accounted for 62% of all juvenile carcasses. Early in the breeding season, collision mortality was restricted to adults of Long- distance Migrants, whereas juveniles of all three migratory guilds (Long-distance and Short-distance Migrants and Permanent Residents) died at windows from late June through early August. Daily mortality for all species was highest between sunrise - 1600 h and lowest from 1600 h - sunrise the next day. Generally, the species observed as carcasses matched birds considered a \u2018high risk\u2019 for BWCs, e.g., Ruby-throated Hummingbird (Archilochus colubris), and those considered \u2018low risk\u2019 were not observed as carcasses, e.g., Blue-gray Gnatcatcher (Polioptila caerulea). Our results suggest that the number of BWCs during the breeding season does not necessarily increase with abundance, but rather appears related to variation among species and age classes, which may have important implications on the population health of affected species. The mechanisms driving these differences are unknown, but may be related reproductive behavior, flight speed, distance movements, and dispersal patterns.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/407/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, Augustana College', u'Department of Biology, Indiana University']]
[u'Out of control mortality matters: the effect of perceived uncontrollable mortality risk on a health-related decision', ['Gillian V Pepper', 'Daniel Nettle'], u'2014-06-06', u'Prior evidence from the public health literature suggests that both control beliefs and perceived threats to life are important for health behaviour. Our previously presented theoretical model generated the more specific hypothesis that uncontrollable, but not controllable, personal mortality risk should alter the payoff from investment in health protection behaviours. We carried out three experiments to test whether altering the perceived controllability of mortality risk would affect a health-related decision. Experiment 1 demonstrated that a mortality prime could be used to alter a health-related decision: the choice between a healthier food reward (fruit) and an unhealthy alternative (chocolate). Experiment 2 demonstrated that it is the controllability of the mortality risk being primed that generates the effect, rather than mortality risk per se. Experiment 3 showed that the effect could be seen in a surreptitious experiment that was not explicitly health related. Our results suggest that perceptions about the controllability of mortality risk may be an important factor in people\u2019s health-related decisions. Thus, techniques for adjusting perceptions about mortality risk could be important tools for use in health interventions. More importantly, tackling those sources of mortality that people perceive to be uncontrollable could have a dual purpose: Making neighbourhoods and workplaces safer would have the primary benefit of reducing uncontrollable mortality risk, which could lead to a secondary benefit from improved health behaviours.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/318/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle University']]
[u'Surveying for bird carcasses resulting from window collisions: a standardized protocol', ['Stephen B. Hager', 'Bradley J. Cosentino'], u'2014-06-05', u'Collisions with building windows are thought to be a significant source of mortality for urban birds. Past studies on bird-window collisions have used a variety of survey methods to estimate the magnitude of mortality, and few have constructed methods in light of the biases related to scavengers and worker abilities that lead to imperfect detection of carcasses. Adoption of a systematic carcass survey protocol in future studies would reduce site-specific biases and among-site survey variability, which in turn would improve the accuracy of mortality estimates at all scales. We present here a standardized carcass survey protocol that serves two basic functions: (a) it is simple and inexpensive to implement, and (b) it accounts for the removal of carcasses by scavengers and detection of carcasses by field workers. Consistent with these goals, we added a variety of approaches with particular aspects of the protocol for researchers to chooose from depending on the goals of their study. The following topics are addressed in the protocol: 1. Preparing for surveys, 2. Supplies, 3. Frequency of surveys throughout the study, 4. When during the day to complete surveys, 5. Field worker behavior during surveys, 6. The pre-survey carcass \u2018clean-up\u2019, 7. How to conduct carcass surveys, 8. Carcass collection and containment, 9. Identifying species of bird carcasses, 10. Data collection and management, and 11. Duration of carcass surveys.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/406/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, Augustana College', u'Department of Biology, Hobart and William Smith Colleges']]
[u'Functional connectivity in task-negative network of the Deaf: effects of sign language experience', ['Evie Malaia', 'Thomas M Talavage', 'Ronnie B Wilbur'], u'2014-06-05', u'Prior studies investigating cortical processing in Deaf signers suggest that life-long experience with sign language and/or auditory deprivation may alter the brain\u2019s anatomical structure and the function of brain regions typically recruited for auditory processing (Emmorey et al., 2010; P\xe9nicaud, et al., 2012 inter alia). We report the first investigation of the task-negative network in Deaf signers and its functional connectivity \u2013 the temporal correlations among spatially remote neurophysiological events. We show that Deaf signers manifest increased functional connectivity between posterior cingulate/precuneus and left medial temporal gyrus (MTG), but also inferior parietal lobe and medial temporal gyrus in the right hemisphere- areas that have been found to show functional recruitment specifically during sign language processing. These findings suggest that the organization of the brain at the level of inter-network connectivity is likely affected by experience with processing visual language, although sensory deprivation could be another source of the difference. We hypothesize that connectivity alterations in the task negative network reflect predictive/automatized processing of the visual signal.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/405/', ['Neuroscience'], [u'Center for Mind, Brain, and Education, University of Texas at Arlington', u'Weldon School of Biomedical Engineering, Purdue University', u'School of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Purdue University', u'Speech, Language, and Hearing Sciences, and Linguistics Program, Purdue University']]
[u'Structure, ontogeny and evolution of the patellar tendon in emus (Dromaius novaehollandiae) and other palaeognath birds', ['Sophie Regnault', 'Andrew A Pitsillides', 'John R. Hutchinson'], u'2014-06-05', u'The patella (kneecap) exhibits multiple evolutionary origins in birds, mammals, and lizards, and is thought to increase the mechanical advantage of the knee extensor muscles. Despite appreciable interest in the specialized anatomy and locomotion of palaeognathous birds (ratites and relatives), the structure, ontogeny and evolution of the patella in these species remains poorly characterized. Within Palaeognathae, the patella has been reported to be either present, absent, or fused with other bones, but it is unclear how much of this variation is real, erroneous or ontogenetic. Clarification of the patella\u2019s form in palaeognaths would provide insight into the early evolution of the patella in birds, in addition to the specialized locomotion of these species. Findings would also provide new character data of use in resolving the controversial evolutionary relationships of palaeognaths. In this study, we examined the gross and histological anatomy of the emu patellar tendon across several age groups from five weeks to 18 months. We combined these results with our observations and those of others regarding the patella in palaeognaths and their outgroups (both extant and extinct), to reconstruct the evolution of the patella in birds. We found no evidence of an ossified patella in emus, but noted its tendon to have a highly unusual morphology comprising large volumes of adipose tissue contained within a collagenous meshwork. The emu patellar tendon also included increasing amounts of a cartilage-like tissue throughout ontogeny. We speculate that the unusual morphology of the patellar tendon in emus results from assimilation of a peri-articular fat pad, and metaplastic formation of cartilage, both potentially as adaptations to increasing tendon load. We corroborate previous observations of a \u2018double patella\u2019 in ostriches, but in contrast to some assertions, we find independent (i.e. unfused) ossified patellae in kiwis and tinamous. Our reconstructions suggest a single evolutionary origin of the patella in birds and that the ancestral patella is likely to have been a composite structure comprising a small ossified portion, lost by some species (e.g. emus, moa) but expanded in others (e.g. ostriches).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/404/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Histology'], [u'Comparative Biomedical Sciences, Royal Veterinary College']]
[u'Brazil 2014 Butterfly Effect: the 2014 World Cup creates the potential for a malaria outbreak in sub\u2013Saharan Africa', ['Christina L Faust', 'Andrew P Dobson'], u'2014-06-03', u'The 2014 World Cup Brazil will create excitement around the globe, but viewership in Africa should be especially high after South Africa 2010 and the growing popularity of football. The time difference and scheduling of matches, however, means that 86% of live matches will be shown during active Anopheles feeding times, increasing risk for malaria for millions of Africans. The aim of this commentary is to draw attention to this potential outbreak and to suggest efforts to mitigate outbreaks.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/402/', ['Ecology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, Princeton University']]
[u'HIV-positive parents, HIV-positive children, and HIV-negative children\u2019s perspectives on disclosure of a parent\u2019s and child\u2019s illness in Kenya', ['Grace Gachanja', 'Gary J Burkholder', 'Aimee Ferraro'], u'2014-06-02', u'HIV disclosure from parent to child is complex and challenging to HIV-positive parents and healthcare professionals. The purpose of the study was to understand the lived experiences of HIV-positive parents and their children during the disclosure process in Kenya. Sixteen HIV-positive parents, seven HIV-positive children, and five HIV-negative children completed semistructured, in-depth interviews. Data were analyzed using the Van Kaam method; NVivo 8 software was used to assist data analysis. We present data on the process of disclosure based on how participants recommended full disclosure be approached to HIV-positive and negative children. Participants recommended disclosure as a process starting at fiveyears with full disclosure delivered at 10 years when the child was capable of understanding the illness, or by 14 years when the child was mature enough to receive the news if full disclosure had not been conducted earlier. Important considerations at the time of full disclosure included the parent\u2019s and/or child\u2019s health statuses, number of infected family members\u2019 illnesses to be disclosed to the child, child\u2019s maturity and understanding level, and the person best suited to deliver full disclosure to the child. The results also revealed it was important to address important life events such as taking a national school examination during disclosure planning and delivery. Recommendations are made for inclusion into HIV disclosure guidelines, manuals, and programs in resource-poor nations with high HIV prevalence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/303/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'HIV', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Public Health'], [u'College of Health Sciences, Walden University', u'National Hispanic University']]
[u'Phylogenetic transfer of knowledge for biological networks', ['Xiuwei Zhang', 'MIn Ye', 'Bernard Moret'], u'2014-06-02', u'Advances in biotechnology have enabled researchers to study molecular biology from the point of view of systems, from focused efforts at functional annotation to the study of pathways, regulatory networks, protein-protein interaction networks, etc. However, direct observation of these systems has proved difficult, time-consuming, and often unreliable. Thus computational methods have been developed to infer such systems from high-throughput data, such as sequences, gene expression levels, ChIP-Seq signals, etc. For the most part, these methods have not yet proved accurate and reliable enough to be used in automated analysis pipelines. Most methods used to infer biological networks rely on data for a single organism; a few attempt to leverage existing knowledge about some related organisms. Today, however, we have data about a large variety of organisms as well as good consensus about the evolutionary relationships among these organisms, so that the latter can be used to integrate the former in a well founded manner, thereby gaining significant power in the analysis. We have coined the term Phylogenetic Transfer of Knowledge (PTK) for this approach to inference and analysis. A PTK analysis considers a family of organisms with known evolutionary relationships and "transfers" biological knowledge among the organisms in accordance with these relationships. The output of a PTK analysis thus includes both predicted (or refined) target data (such as networks) for the extant organisms and inferred details about their evolutionary history. While a few ad hoc inference methods used a PTK approach almost a dozen years ago, we first provided a global perspective on such methods just six years ago. The last few years have seen a significant increase in research in this area, as well as new applications. The time is thus right for a review of recent work that falls under this heading, a characterization of the solutions proposed, and a description of remaining challenges.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/401/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'The European Bioinformatics Institute', u'School of Computer and Communication Sciences, EPFL']]
[u'Identifying microbes from environmental water samples in a discovery-based learning module', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2014-05-29', u'What is the microbe that we are dealing with? Whether it is cholera or anthrax, we want to know the disease-causing microorganism as quickly as possible since prompt identification of the causative organism would help control disease spread - and potentially save lives through provision of appropriate care and medication. But despite the advent of rapid microbial identification tools \u2013 particularly those based on mass spectrometry \u2013 most undergraduate curricula continue to focus on culture- and nucleic acid-based identification techniques since they are widely used for detecting and identifying microbes in clinical and environmental samples. Mass spectrometry-based methods, however, have increasingly complemented traditional approaches in clinical and research laboratories - but are rarely featured in undergraduate curricula. Motivated by the desire to address the curriculum gap, I developed an inquiry-based laboratory exercise for introducing students to the operating principles and methodology of mass spectrometry-based microbial identification. By requiring students to identify microbes in environmental water samples \u2013 a real-life problem with unknown answers \u2013 the exercise piqued the students\u2019 interest in learning, while helping to stir their curiosity through an interesting field activity where they put on a scientist\u2019s hat in solving a mystery. This synopsis article summarizes a piece of published educational research and expands on the discussion of concepts underlying matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS)-based microbial identification. For example, the article discusses the relative advantages and disadvantages of the pattern recognition and proteome database search approaches for analyzing mass spectra data. Additionally, the effect of general and tailored sample preparation protocols on identification accuracy is also elaborated. Finally, the pedagogical utility of field- and inquiry-based educational tools is also discussed in greater detail from a post-publication perspective.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/399/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Setting the record straight on invasive lionfish control: Culling works', ['Isabelle M Cote', 'Lad Akins', 'Elizabeth Underwood', 'Jocelyn Curtis-Quick', 'Stephanie J Green'], u'2014-05-28', u'Indo-Pacific lionfish have invaded large parts of the western Atlantic, Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico, and have already caused measurable declines in native Atlantic reef fauna. Culling efforts are occurring across the region, particularly on coral reefs, to reduce local lionfish abundances. Frequent culling has recently been shown to cause a shift towards more wary and reclusive behaviour by lionfish, which has prompted calls for halting culls. However, the effectiveness of culling per se is not in question. Culling successfully lowers lionfish numbers and has been shown to stabilise or even reverse declines in native prey fish. In fact, partial culling is often as effective as complete local eradication, yet requires significantly less time and effort. Abandoning culling altogether would therefore be seriously misguided and a hindrance to conservation. We offer suggestions for how to design removal programs that minimize behavioural changes and maximize culling success.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/398/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Simon Fraser University', u'Reef Environmental Education Foundation', u'Cape Eleuthera Institute', u'Department of Integrative Biology, Oregon State University']]
[u'Forgotten treasures: the fate of data in animal behavior studies', ['Daniel S Caetano', 'Anita Aisenberg'], u'2014-05-26', u'Published discussions on data stewardship often focus on standardized datasets whose reuse patterns are known. Improvements in stewardship of animal behavior data are virtually absent and lag behind other disciplines such as molecular biology and systematics. In this essay, we discuss best practices of three key aspects related to the collection and archival of behavioral data: data supporting published results; data collected from field observations; and the potential of museum specimens as source of data to animal behavior and ecology. To quantify how much data is shared in publications we reviewed selected journals in animal behavior and behavioral ecology. We found that only an extremely small proportion of the articles published in 2013 made even part of their data available. We discuss about the benefits of making data available, review resources available for data archiving and provide practical guidance for ethologists. We discuss and provide examples of the amount of ethological and ecological data that can be recorded during field observations. To investigate the potential of museum specimens as source of data, we surveyed researchers working in areas related to ecology, animal behavior, and systematics. Both ethologists and systematists agreed that natural history information stored in collections would be a valuable source of data. We make recommendations to enhance data collection and stewardship from the point of view of researchers in animal behavior sciences, considering the special characteristics of the discipline and the type of data that is often produced. We suggest that there is a large amount of crucial data about natural history, ecology and behavior that investigators could glean from collections. Although it is difficult to appreciate the relevance of data for future studies at the time of publication, such data may inspire fruitful opportunities that we cannot afford to lose.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/396/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Idaho', u'Laboratorio de Etolog\xeda, Ecolog\xeda y Evoluci\xf3n, Instituto de Investigaciones Biol\xf3gicas Clemente Estable']]
[u'The pupillary light response reflects eye-movement preparation', ['Sebastiaan Mathot', 'Lotje van der Linden', 'Jonathan Grainger', 'Francoise Vitu'], u'2014-05-27', u"When the eyes are exposed to an increased influx of light, the pupils constrict. The pupillary light response (PLR) is traditionally believed to be purely reflexive and not susceptible to cognitive influences. In contrast to this traditional view, we report here that preparation of a PLR occurs in parallel with preparation of a saccadic eye movement towards a bright (or dark) stimulus, even before the eyes set in motion. Participants fixated a central gray area and made a saccade towards a peripheral target. Using gaze-contingent display changes, we manipulated whether or not the brightness of the target background was the same during and after saccade preparation. More specifically, on some trials we changed the brightness of the target background as soon as the eyes set in motion, thus dissociating the preparatory PLR (i.e. to the brightness of the target background before the saccade) from the 'regular' PLR (i.e. to the brightness after the saccade). We show that a PLR to the brightness of the to-be-fixated target background is prepared before the eyes set in motion. This reduces the latency of the PLR by approximately 100 ms. We link our findings to the pre-saccadic shift of attention: The pupil prepares to adjusts its size to the brightness of a to-be-fixated stimulus as soon as attention covertly shifts towards that stimulus, about 100 ms before a saccade is executed. Our findings illustrate that the PLR is a dynamic movement that is tightly linked to visual attention and eye-movement preparation.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/238/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive, CNRS', u'Laboratoire de Psychologie Cognitive, Aix-Marseille University & CNRS']]
[u'Measurement uncertainties in quantifying aeolian mass flux: Evidence from wind tunnel and field site data', ['Ate Poortinga', 'Joep GS Keijsers', 'Jerry Maroulis', 'Saskia M. Visser'], u'2014-05-26', u'Aeolian sediment traps are widely used to estimate the total volume of wind-driven sediment transport, but also to study the vertical mass distribution of a saltating sand cloud. The reliability of sediment flux estimations from this data are dependent upon the specific configuration of the measurement compartments and the analysis approach used. In this study, we analyse the uncertainty of these measurements by investigating the vertical cumulative distribution and relative sediment flux derived from both wind tunnel and field studies. Vertical flux data was examined using existing data in combination with a newly acquired dataset; comprising meteorological data and sediment fluxes from six different events, using three customized catchers at Ameland beaches in northern Netherlands. Fast-temporal data collected in a wind tunnel shows that the median transport height has a scattered pattern between impact and fluid threshold, that increases linearly with shear velocities above the fluid threshold. For finer sediment, a larger proportion was transported closer to the surface compared to coarser sediment fractions. It was also shown that errors originating from the distribution of sampling compartments, specifically the location of the lowest sediment trap relative to the surface, can be identified using the relative sediment flux. In the field, surface conditions such as surface moisture, surface crusts or frozen surfaces have a more pronounced but localized effect than shear velocity. Uncertainty in aeolian mass flux estimates can be reduced by placing multiple compartments in closer proximity to the surface.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/278/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Soil Science'], [u'Soil Physics and Land Management Group, Wageningen University', u'Faculty of Science, Health, Education and Engineering, University of the Sunshine Coast', u'Team Soil Physics and Land Use, Alterra - Wageningen University and Research Center']]
[u'Coalescent: an Open-Science framework for Importance Sampling in Coalescent theory', ['Susanta Tewari', 'John L Spouge'], u'2014-05-25', u'Importance sampling is widely used in coalescent theory to compute data likelihood. Efficient importance sampling requires a trial distribution close to the target distribution of the genealogies conditioned on the data. Moreover, an efficient proposal requires intuition about how the data influence the target distribution. Different proposals might work under similar conditions, and sometimes the corresponding concepts overlap extensively. Currently, there is no framework available for coalescent theory that evaluates proposals in an integrated manner. Typically, problems are not modeled, optimization is performed vigorously on limited datasets, user interaction requires thorough knowledge, and programs are not aligned with the current demands of open science. We have designed a general framework (http://coalescent.sourceforge.net) for importance sampling, to compute data likelihood under the infinite sites model of mutation. The framework models the necessary core concepts, comes integrated with several data sets of varying size, implements the standard competing proposals, and integrates tightly with our previous framework for calculating exact probabilities. The framework computes the data likelihood and provides maximum likelihood estimates of the mutation parameter. Well-known benchmarks in the coalescent literature validate the framework\u2019s accuracy. We evaluate several proposals in the coalescent literature, to discover that the order of efficiency among three standard proposals changes when running time is considered along with the effective sample size. The framework provides an intuitive user interface with minimal clutter. For speed, the framework switches automatically to modern multicore hardware, if available. It runs on three major platforms (Windows, Mac and Linux). Extensive tests and coverage make the framework accessible to a large community.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/395/', ['Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics'], [u'Computational Biology Branch, National Center of Biotechnology Information (NCBI)']]
[u'Spatial analysis of United States ethanol production infrastructure vulnerability to flooding', ['Yingying Chen', 'Nicholas Cuba'], u'2014-05-25', u'Early-growing season, long duration floods are harmful to the cultivation of maize, the source of 80% of the US bioethanol fuel. Due to the centrality of this industry to US government efforts to bolster domestic energy production, Midwest flooding has implications for US energy production. This paper uses spatial statistics to characterize the spatial distribution of ethanol plants relative to maize production in twelve Midwestern US states which account for approximately 90% of US corn production. County-based territories are delineated for each of the 176 plants in these states, and the total maize production and average annual production are summed for each plant. Multi-decadal flooding data from the Dartmouth Flood Observatory (1982-2007) are used in conjunction with data from the US Department of Agriculture National Agricultural Statistical Service to derive flood risk levels for each plant, and for total production capacity in the region.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/394/', ['Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of International Development, Community and Environment, Clark University', u'Graduate School of Geography, Clark University']]
[u'Augmented reality in healthcare education: an integrative review', ['Egui Zhu', 'Arash Hadadgar', 'Italo Masiello', 'Nabil Zary'], u'2014-05-25', u'Background. Developing healthcare competencies in students and professionals poses great educational challenges. A possible solution is to provide learning opportunities that utilize augmented reality (AR), where virtual learning experiences can be embedded within a real physical context. The aim of this study was to provide a comprehensive overview of the current state of AR in terms of user acceptance, the AR applications currently developed and the effect of AR on the development of competencies in healthcare. Methods. We conducted an integrative review, which is the broadest type of research review method allowing for the inclusion of various research designs. This allows us to more fully understand a phenomenon of interest. Our review included multi-disciplinary research publications in English reported until 2012. Results. We found 2 529 research papers from ERIC, CINAHL, Medline, PubMed, Web of Science and Springer-link. Three qualitative, twenty quantitative and two mixed-method studies were included. Using thematic analysis, we have described characteristics for research, technology and education. This study showed that AR was applied across a wide range of topics in healthcare education. Furthermore, acceptance for AR as a learning technology was reported among the learners, as well as its potential for improving different types of competencies. Discussion. AR is still considered a novelty in the literature, with most of the studies reporting early prototypes. Additionally, the designed AR applications lacked an explicit pedagogical theoretical framework. Instead, the learning strategies adopted were of the traditional style \u2018see one, do one and teach one\u2019 and do not integrate clinical competencies to ensure patients\u2019 safety.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/335/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Dept of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics (LIME), Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'To crowdfund research, scientists must build an audience for their work', ['Jarrett E Byrnes', 'Jai Ranganathan', 'Barbara L. E. Walker', 'Zen Faulkes'], u'2014-05-22', u'As rates of traditional sources of scientific funding decline, scientists have become increasingly interested in crowdfunding as a means of bringing in new money for research. In fields where crowdfunding has become a major venue for fundraising such as the arts and technology, building an audience for one\u2019s work is key for successful crowdfunding. For science, to what extent does audience building, via engagement and outreach, increase a scientist\u2019s abilities to bring in money via crowdfunding? Here we report on an analysis of the #SciFund Challenge, a crowdfunding experiment in which 159 scientists attempted to crowdfund their research. Using data gathered from a survey of participants, internet metrics, and logs of project donations, we find that public engagement is the key to crowdfunding success. Building an audience or \u201cfanbase\u201d and actively engaging with that audience as well as seeking to broaden the reach of one\u2019s audience indirectly increases levels of funding. Audience size and effort interact to bring in more people to view a scientist\u2019s project proposal, leading to funding. We discuss how projects capable of raising levels of funds commensurate with traditional funding agencies will need to incorporate direct involvement of the public with science. We suggest that if scientists and research institutions wish to tap this new source of funds, they will need to encourage and reward activities that allow scientists to engage with the public.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/393/', ['Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy'], [u'Biology Department, University of Massachusetts Boston', u'National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis, University of California Santa Barbara', u'Institute for Social, Behavioral, and Economic Research, University of California Santa Barbara', u'The Department of Biology, The University of Texas-Pan American']]
[u'Body mass control and unresolved sociocultural stress: application of the generalized Data-Rate Theorem', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2014-05-20', u'New results from control theory allow construction of necessary conditions statistical models of body mass regulation in the context of interaction with a complex dynamic environment. Focusing on the stress-related induction of central obesity via HPA axis regulation, we explore implications for strategies of prevention and treatment. It rapidly becomes evident that individual-oriented biomedical reductionism is an inadequate paradigm. Absent mitigation of HPA axis or related dysfunctions arising from social pathologies of power imbalance, economic insecurity, and so on, it is unlikely that permanent changes in visceral obesity can be maintained without constant therapeutic effort, an expensive -- and likely unsustainable -- public policy.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/60/', ['Biophysics', 'Health Policy', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Orexin A exerts more thermogenic than orexinergic functions', ['Giovanni Messina', 'Sergio Chieffi', 'Marcellino Monda'], u'2014-05-19', u'In this article we focus on the role of orexin A in the thermoregulatory functions and its link to food intake. This peptide is named orexin A to emphasize the increase in food intake due to this peptide. The influence of eating behavior could be only secondary to change in the thermoregulatory set-point to reach a determined core temperature. Our viewpoint is compared with vision of other authors, finding possible concordance and disagreement. Activity of the sympathetic nerves system, brown adipose tissue and central body temperatures, heart rate and food intake were monitored to measure the modifications induced by an intracerebroventricular injection of orexin A on the thermoregulation and eating behavior in various experimental conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/392/', ['Neuroscience', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Department of Experimental Medicine, Section of Human Physiology and Clinical Unit of Dietetics and Sports Medicine, Second University of Naples']]
[u'Protein kinase C in the wood frog, Rana sylvatica: reassessing the tissue-specific regulation of PKC isozymes during freezing', ['Christopher A. Dieni', 'Kenneth B. Storey'], u'2014-05-19', u'The wood frog, Rana sylvatica, survives whole-body freezing and thawing each winter. The extensive adaptations required at the biochemical level are facilitated by alterations to signaling pathways, including the insulin/Akt and AMPK pathways. Past studies investigating changing tissue-specific patterns of the second messenger IP3 in adapted frogs have suggested important roles for protein kinase C (PKC) in response to stress. In addition to their dependence on second messengers, phosphorylation of three PKC sites by upstream kinases (most notably PDK1) is needed for full PKC activation, according to current generally-accepted models. The present study uses phospho-specific immunoblotting to investigate phosphorylation states of PKC- as they relate to distinct tissues, PKC isozymes, and phosphorylation sites- in control and frozen frogs. In contrast to past studies where second messengers of PKC increased during the freezing process, phosphorylation of PKC tended to generally decline in most tissues of frozen frogs. All PKC isozymes and specific phosphorylation sites detected by immunoblotting decreased in phosphorylation levels in hind leg skeletal muscle and hearts of frozen frogs. Most PKC isozymes and specific phosphorylation sites detected in livers and kidneys also declined; the only exceptions were the levels of isozymes/phosphorylation sites detected by the phospho-PKC\u03b1/\u03b2II (Thr638/641) antibody, which remained unchanged from control to frozen frogs. Changes in brains of frozen frogs were unique; no decreases were observed in the phosphorylation levels of any of the PKC isozymes and/or specific phosphorylation sites detected by immunoblotting. Rather, increases were observed for the levels of isozymes/phosphorylation sites detected by the phospho-PKC\u03b1/\u03b2II (Thr638/641), phospho-PKC\u03b4 (Thr505), and phospho-PKC\u03b8 (Thr538) antibodies; all other isozymes/phosphorylation sites detected in brain remained unchanged from control to frozen frogs. The results of this study indicate a potential important role for PKC in cerebral protection during wood frog freezing. Our findings also call for a reassessment of the previously-inferred importance of PKC in other tissues, particularly in liver; a more thorough investigation is required to determine whether PKC activity in this physiological situation is indeed dependent on phosphorylation, or whether it deviates from the generally-accepted model and can be \u201coverridden\u201d by exceedingly high levels of second messengers, as has been demonstrated with certain PKC isozymes (e.g. PKC\u03b4).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/391/', ['Biochemistry', 'Zoology'], [u'Chemistry and Biochemistry, Mount Allison University', u'Institute of Biochemistry, Carleton University']]
[u'A novel bioassay for evaluating the efficacy of biocides to inhibit settling and early establishment of marinebiofilms', ['Asa Arrhenius', 'Thomas Backhaus', 'Annelie Hilvarsson', 'Ida Wendt', 'Aleksandra Zgrundo', 'Hans Blanck'], u'2014-05-19', u'This paper presents a novel assay that allows a quick and robust assessment of the effects of biocides on the initial settling and establishment of marine photoautotrophic biofilms. The assay integrates the response of the multitude of indigenous fouling organisms, which overcomes a major limitation of existing assays which are largely limited to testing only lab-cultivatable species. The assay was evaluated using eight antifouling biocides, for which full concentration-response curves are presented. The efficacy ranking, based on EC  98  values from most to least efficacious compound is: copper pyrithione >TPBP >DCOIT >tolylfluanid>zinc pyrithione >medetomidine >copper (Cu  2+  ), while the ecotoxicological ranking (based on E  C10  values) is irgarol, copper pyrithione >zinc pyrithione >TPBP >tolylfluanid >DCOIT >copper (Cu  2+  ) > medetomidine. The algaecide irgarol did not cause full inhibition. Instead the inhibition leveled out at 95% effect at 30 nmol l  -1  , a concentration that was clearly lower than for any other of the tested biocides.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/240/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Taxonomy', 'Toxicology'], [u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg', u'Institute of Oceanography, University of Gdansk']]
[u'Scaling of olfactory antennae of the terrestrial hermit crabs Coenobita rugosus and Coenobita perlatus during ontogeny', ['Lindsay D Waldrop', 'Roxanne M Bantay', 'Quang V Nguyen'], u'2014-05-17', u'Although many lineages of terrestrialized crustaceans have poor olfactory capabilities, crabs in the family Coenobitidae, including the terrestrial hermit crabs in the genus Coenobita, are able to locate food and water using olfactory antennae (antennules) to capture odors from the surrounding air. Terrestrial hermit crabs begin their lives as small marine larvae and must find a suitable place to undergo metamorphosis into a juvenile form, which initiates their transition to land. Juveniles increase in size by more than an order of magnitude to reach adult size. Since odor capture is a process heavily dependent on the size and speed of the antennules and physical properties of the fluid, both the transition from water to air and the large increase in size during ontogeny could impact odor capture. In this study, we examine two species of terrestrial hermit crabs, Coenobita perlatus H. Milne-Edwards and Coenobita rugosus H. Milne-Edwards, to determine how the antennule morphometrics and kinematics of flicking change in comparison to body size during ontogeny, and how this scaling relationship could impact odor capture by using a simple model of mass transport in flow. Many features of the antennules, including the chemosensory sensilla, scaled allometrically with carapace width and increased slower than expected by isometry, resulting in relatively larger antennules on juvenile animals. Flicking speed scaled as expected with isometry. Our mass-transport model showed that allometric scaling of antennule morphometrics and kinematics leads to thinner boundary layers of attached fluid around the antennule during flicking and higher odorant capture rates as compared to antennules which scaled isometrically. There were no significant differences in morphometric or kinematic measurements between the two species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/390/', ['Biophysics', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Mathematics, University of North Carolina', u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of California', u'Department of Biology, San Francisco State University']]
[u'Stress, Pain & Sport', ['Pia Wippert'], u'2014-05-14', u'Stressors in everyday life can entail, along with emotional and behavioral reactions, a whole series of physiological reactions at different systematic levels (endocrinological, metabolic, immunological). This is also a cause for the development of stress-associated illnesses such as cardiovascular disease, cognitive impairment, fatigue syndrome, delayed healing of injuries, and pain syndromes. Current research has focused increasing attention on pain syndromes due to the significant economic harm caused by chronic pain patients. Sports, and especially endurance sports, are well-suited for the psychophysiological reduction of stress. Extreme sports, however, can actually induce stress and result in symptoms related to being overstressed. A good balance between exertion and recovery is therefore very important for elite athletes. The presentation gives an overview about this different topics and measurement methods of stress.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/389/', ['Internal Medicine', 'Kinesiology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Science of Sport & Sports Medicine, University of Potsdam']]
[u'The nonavian theropod quadrate II: systematic usefulness, major trends and cladistic and phylogenetic morphometrics analyses', ['Christophe Hendrickx', 'Ricardo Araujo', 'Octavio Mateus'], u'2014-05-14', u'The skull-bone quadrate in nonavian theropods is very diverse morphologically alongside the disparity of the group as a whole. However this disparity has been underestimated for taxonomic purposes. In order to evaluate the phylogenetic potential and investigate the evolutionary transformations of the quadrate, we conducted a Catalano-Goloboff phylogenetic morphometric analysis as well as a cladistic analysis using 98 discrete quadrate related characters. The cladistic analysis provides a fully resolved tree mirroring to some degree the classification of nonavian theropods. The quadrate morphology by its own provides a wealth of data with strong phylogenetic signal and allows inference of major trends in the evolution of this bone. Important synapomorphies include: for Abelisauroidea, a lateral ramus extending to the ectocondyle; for Tetanurae, the absence of the lateral process; for Spinosauridae, a medial curvature of the ventral part of the pterygoid ramus occurring just above the mandibular articulation; for Avetheropoda, an anterior margin of the pterygoid flange formed by a roughly parabolic margin; and for Tyrannosauroidea, a semi-oval pterygoid flange shape in medial view. The Catalano-Goloboff phylogenetic morphometric analysis reveals two main morphotypes of the mandibular articulation of the quadrate linked to function. The first morphotype, characterized by an anteroposteriorly broad mandibular articulation with two ovoid/subcircular condyles roughly subequal in size, is found in Ceratosauria, Tyrannosauroidea and Oviraptorosauria. This morphotype allows a very weak displacement of the mandible laterally. The second morphotype is characterized by an elongate and anteroposteriorly narrow mandibular articulation and a long and parabolic/sigmoid ectocondyle. Present in Megalosauroidea, Carcharodontosauridae and Dromaeosauridae, this morphotype permits the lower jaw rami to be displaced laterally when the mouth opened.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/380/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Departamento de Ci\xeancias da Terra, Universidade Nova de Lisboa', u'Museu da Lourinh\xe3', u'Huffington Department of Earth Sciences, Southern Methodist University', u'Instituto de Plasmas e Fus\xe3o Nuclear, Instituto Superior T\xe9cnico, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Leibniz-Institut f\xfcr Evolutions- und Biodiversit\xe4tsforschung an der Humboldt-Universit\xe4t zu Berlin, Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde']]
[u'Fast and accurate estimation of the covariance between pairwise maximum likelihood distances', ['Manuel Gil'], u'2014-05-14', u'Pairwise evolutionary distances are a model-based summary statistic for a set of molecular sequences. They represent the leaf-to-leaf path lengths of the underlying phylogenetic tree. Estimates of pairwise distances with overlapping paths covary because of shared mutation events. It is desirable to take these covariance structure into account in any process that compares or combines distances to increase precision. In this paper, we present a fast estimator for the covariance of two pairwise maximum likelihood distances, estimated under general Markov models. The estimator is based on a conjecture (going back to Nei and Jin, 1989) which links the covariance to path lengths. We prove it here under a simple symmetric substitution model. In a simulation, we show that our estimator outperforms previously published ones in terms of the mean squared error.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/387/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Computational Science', 'Statistics'], [u'Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich']]
[u'Shotgun proteomics reveals physiological response to ocean acidification in Crassostrea gigas', ['Emma Timmins-Schiffman', 'William D Coffey', 'Wilber Hua', 'Brook L Nunn', 'Gary H Dickinson', 'Steven B Roberts'], u'2014-05-13', u'Background. Ocean acidification as a result of increased anthropogenic CO2 emissions is occurring in marine and estuarine environments worldwide. The coastal ocean experiences additional daily and seasonal fluctuations in pH that can be lower than projected end of century open ocean pH reductions. Projected and current ocean acidification have wide-ranging effects on many aquatic organisms, however the exact mechanisms of the impacts of ocean acidification on many of these animals remains to be characterized.\nMethods. In order to assess the impact of ocean acidification on marine invertebrates, Pacific oysters (Crassostrea gigas) were exposed to one of four different pCO2 levels for four weeks: 400 \xb5atm (pH 8.0), 800 \xb5atm (pH 7.7), 1000 \xb5atm (pH 7.6), or 2800 \xb5atm (pH 7.3). At the end of 4 weeks a variety of physiological parameters were measured to assess the impacts of ocean acidification: tissue glycogen content and fatty acid profile, shell micromechanical properties, and response to acute heat shock. To determine the effects of ocean acidification on the underlying molecular physiology of oysters and their stress response, some of the oysters from 400 \xb5atm and 2800 \xb5atm were exposed to an additional mechanical stress and shotgun proteomics were done on oysters from high and low pCO2 and from with and without mechanical stress.\nResults. At the end of the four week exposure period, oysters in all four pCO2 environments deposited new shell, but growth rate was not different among the treatments. However, micromechanical properties of the new shell were compromised by elevated pCO2. Elevated pCO2 affected neither whole body fatty acid composition, nor glycogen content, nor mortality rate associated with acute heat shock. Shotgun proteomics revealed that several physiological pathways were significantly affected by ocean acidification, including antioxidant response, carbohydrate metabolism, and transcription and translation. Additionally, the proteomic response to a second stress differed with pCO2, with numerous processes significantly affected by mechanical stimulation at high versus low pCO2 (all proteomics data are available in the ProteomeXchange under the identifier PXD000835).\nDiscussion. Oyster physiology is significantly altered by exposure to elevated pCO2, indicating changes in energy resource use. This is especially apparent in the assessment of the effects of pCO2 on the proteomic response to a second stress. The altered stress response illustrates that ocean acidification may impact how oysters respond to other changes in their environment. These data contribute to an integrative view of the effects of ocean acidification on oysters as well as physiological trade-offs during environmental stress.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/388/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'School of Aquatic and Fishery Sciences, University of Washington', u'Department of Biology, The College of New Jersey', u'Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington']]
[u'Swarm: robust and fast clustering method for amplicon-based studies', ['Frederic Mahe', 'Torbjrn  Rognes', 'Christopher Quince', 'Colomban de Vargas', 'Micah Dunthorn'], u'2014-05-12', u"Popular de novo amplicon clustering methods suffer from two fundamental flaws: arbitrary global clustering thresholds, and input-order dependency induced by centroid selection. Swarm was developed to address these issues by first clustering nearly identical amplicons iteratively using a local threshold, and then by using clusters' internal structure and amplicon abundances to refine its results. This fast, scalable, and input-order independent approach reduces the influence of clustering parameters and produces robust operational taxonomic units, improving the amount of meaningful biological information that can be extracted from amplicon-based studies.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/386/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Ecology, Technische Universit\xe4t Kaiserslautern', u'CNRS, UMR 7144, EPEP -- \xc9volution des Protistes et des \xc9cosyst\xe8mes P\xe9lagiques, Station Biologique de Roscoff', u'Sorbonne Universit\xe9s, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR 7144, Station Biologique de Roscoff', u'Department of Microbiology, Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet', u'Department of Informatics, University of Oslo', u'School of Engineering, University of Glasgow']]
[u'ELM: Enhanced lowest common ancestor based method for detecting a pathogenic virus from a large sequence dataset', ['Keisuke Ueno', 'Akihiro Ishii', 'Kimihito Ito'], u'2014-05-11', u'Emerging viral diseases, most of which are caused by the transmission of viruses from animals to humans, pose a threat to public health. Discovering pathogenic viruses through surveillance is the key to preparedness for this potential threat. Next generation sequencing (NGS) helps us to identify viruses without the design of a specific PCR primer. The major task in NGS data analysis is taxonomic identification for vast numbers of sequences. However, taxonomic identification via a BLAST search against all the known sequences is a computational bottleneck. Here we propose an enhanced lowest-common-ancestor based method (ELM) to effectively identify viruses from massive sequence data. To reduce the computational cost, ELM uses a customized database composed only of viral sequences for the BLAST search. At the same time, ELM adopts a novel criterion to suppress the rise in false positive assignments caused by the small database. As a result, identification by ELM is more than 1,000 times faster than the conventional methods without loss of accuracy. We anticipate that ELM will contribute to direct diagnosis of viral infections. The web server and the customized viral database are freely available at http://bioinformatics.czc.hokudai.ac.jp/ELM/.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/385/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Virology'], [u'Research Center for Zoonosis Control, Hokkaido University']]
[u'Rape and the Prevalence of Hybrids in Broadly Sympatric Species: a Case Study using Albatrosses', ['Sievert Rohwer', 'Rebecca B. Harris', 'Hollie E. Walsh'], u'2014-05-08', u'Conspecific rape often increases male reproductive success. However, the haste and aggression of forced copulations suggests that males may sometimes rape heterospecific females, thus making rape a likely, but undocumented, source of hybrids between broadly sympatric species. We present evidence that heterospecific rape may be the source of hybrids between Black-footed and Laysan Albatrosses (Phoebastria nigripes, and P. immutabilis, respectively). Extensive field studies have shown that paired (but not unpaired) males of both of these albatross species use rape as a supplemental reproductive strategy. Between species differences in size, timing of laying, and aggressiveness suggest that Black-footed Albatrosses should be more successful than Laysan Albatrosses in heteropspecific rape attempts, and male Black-footed Albatrosses have been observed attempting to force copulations on female Laysan Albatrosses. Nuclear markers showed that the six hybrids we studied were F1s and mitochondrial markers showed that male Black-footed Albatrosses sired all six hybrids. The siring asymmetry found in our hybrids may have long persisted because an IM analysis suggests that long-term gene exchange between these species has been from Black-footed Albatrosses into Laysan Albatrosses. If hybrids are sired in heterospecific rapes, they presumably would be raised and sexually imprinted on Laysan Albatrosses, and two unmated hybrids in a previous study courted only Laysan Albatrosses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/384/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics'], [u'University of Washington, Burke Museum and Department of Biology', u'Burke Museum and Department of Biology, University of Washington']]
[u'Spiraldynamik - intelligent movement', ['Jens Wippert'], u'2014-05-08', u'Spiraldynamik \xae is an anatomically based movement and therapy concept. It was founded by the physiotherapist Yolanda Deswarte, and Dr. med. Christian Larsen. During the time that he was professionally active as a pediatrician, Christian Larsen repeatedly wondered: \u201cis the universal principle of organization, the spiral, also embodied in man?\u201d Observing the babies and toddlers that he worked with inspired him to research further into movement sequences. International interdisciplinary research communities in medicine, physiotherapy, pedagogy, yoga, fitness,sports and dance have been working together researching this question since 1981. Their main preoccupations have been the connections between anatomy, the three-dimensional system and the laws of nature (i.e. gravity), using the spiral as a basic building block. Spatially, the spiral structure dominates as a place saving and stable structure. The temporal dimension of motion is defined by wave movement and rhythm. Time and space are united in the spiral and in dynamism. Coordinated movements are three-dimensional, using the anatomically given corporal structures. Only the three-dimensional joining of the spiral structures throughout our body makes harmonious movement possible. The form of the body\u2019s joints and bones and the arrangement of the ligaments and muscles, indicate the body\u2019s preferred movement and rotation directions. Since a spiral has basically two directions of rotation, it is a matter of turning in the direction set forth by the given structure of the body. This anatomical understanding trains precise three-dimensional movement coordination and permits an unexpected variety of movement to emerge.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/383/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Orthopedics', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Physical therapy center, elementhera']]
[u'The predictability of mixture toxicity of demethylase inhibiting fungicides to Daphnia magna depends on life-cycle parameters', ['Enken Hassold', 'Thomas Backhaus'], u'2014-05-07', u'A variety of different fungicides is found simultaneously in surface waters, among which demethylase inhibitors (DMIs) are a major group. The joint toxicity of four DMIs from different chemical classes (Fenarimol, Prochloraz, Triadimefon and Pyrifenox) was investigated in the reproduction test with Daphnia magna, following an extended protocol according to ISO 10706. We assessed the toxicity of the DMI mixtures across different endpoints and effect levels and evaluated the predictability of their joint action using Concentration Addition (CA) and Independent Action (IA). The mixture reduced fecundity, delayed molting and caused characteristic malformations in offspring in a concentration-dependend manner which is possibly due to an anti-ecdysteroid action, as previously described for individual DMIs. However, also mixture-specific effects were observed: exposed daphnids reached sexual maturity already after the third juvenile molt, and thus significantly earlier than unexposed daphnids, which needed four juvenile molts to reach maturity. This effect is not caused by any of the DMIs alone. Additionally, the percentage of aborted broods was synergistically higher than expected by either CA or IA. IA underestimates the mixture toxicity for all parameters. The predictive quality of CA differed between life history responses, but was always within a factor of two to the observed toxicity. The parameter \u201cfecundity reduction, counting only normally developed offspring\u201d was the most sensitive endpoint, while the parameter \u201cfecundity reduction, counting all living offspring\u201d was slightly less sensitive. The mixture caused a 90% reduction in fecundity at individual concentrations that only provoke 7% effect or less, which calls for a mixture-specific toxicity assessment of DMI fungicides.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/172/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Toxicology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology and Chemistry, University of Bremen', u'Department of Plant and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'Groups, groupoids, and information sources: models of mitochondrial deterioration and aging', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2014-05-05', u"Using mitochondrial free energy delivery rate as a temperature analog, we examine the 'spontaneous symmetry breaking' of the group associated with the error minimization coding scheme related to protein folding, and characterize the phase transition that drives the collapse of normal folding to pathological amyloid production. Similarly, groupoids prove central to the study of analogous, often highly punctuated, 'ground state' failures in far more complex biological processes, adopting Maturana's perspective on the central role of cognition throughout the living state.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/381/', ['Mathematical Biology', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Epidemiology', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'The nonavian theropod quadrate I: standardized terminology and overview of the anatomy, function and ontogeny', ['Christophe Hendrickx', 'Ricardo Araujo', 'Octavio Mateus'], u'2014-05-03', u'By allowing the articulation of the mandible with the cranium, the quadrate of diapsids and most other tetrapods plays an important role morphofunctionally. In Theropoda, its morphology is particularly complex and varies importantly among different clades of nonavian theropods so that the quadrate possesses a strong taxonomic potential. Inconsistencies in the notation and terminology used in discussions of the theropod quadrate anatomy have been noticed, a number of no less than height different terms being sometimes given to a same structure. A standardization list of terms and notation for each quadrate anatomical entity is here proposed, with the goal of facilitating future descriptions of this important cranial bone. An overview of the quadrate function, pneumaticity and ontogeny in nonavian theropods is also given. The quadrate of the large majority of nonavian theropod is akinetic and the diagonally oriented sulcus of the mandibular articulation allowed both rami of the mandible to move laterally when opening the mouth in many of them. Pneumaticity of the quadrate is also present in most of tetanuran clades and the pneumatic chamber, invaded by the quadrate diverticulum of the mandibular arch pneumatic system, was connected to one or several pneumatopores on the medial, lateral, posterior, anterior or ventral sides of the quadrate. Absence of a quadrate foramen in allosauroid embryos and a poor delimitation of mandibular condyles in both embryonic and juveniles tetanurans seems to be ontogenetic features of some theropods. Finally, the numerous morphological differences existing in the quadrates of the two specimens of Shuvuuia deserti, interpreted by some as juvenile and adult individuals, are considered as ontogenetic, taphonomic, and perhaps also taxonomic variations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/379/', ['Paleontology'], [u'Departamento de Ci\xeancias da Terra, Universidade Nova de Lisboa', u'Museu da Lourinh\xe3', u'Huffington Department of Earth Sciences, Southern Methodist University', u'Instituto de Plasmas e Fus\xe3o Nuclear, Instituto Superior T\xe9cnico, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Leibniz-Institut f\xfcr Evolutions- und Biodiversit\xe4tsforschung an der Humboldt-Universit\xe4t zu Berlin, Museum f\xfcr Naturkunde']]
[u'Human Hearing Loss', ['Stacy Lee Ware'], u'2014-05-01', u'Hearing loss affects as much as 5% of the global human population and its negative consequences, often exacerbated by cultural bias or distributive injustice, include delayed cognitive and language development, learning deficits and poor academic performance, chronic unemployment and dependency, poverty, elevated risk of harm and poor health. This paper is based on a review of the academic literature as well as other credible published resources to identify the principal causes of hearing loss; its consequences for individuals, communities, and states; and potential interventions most appropriate for developing and low-resource countries where hearing loss is currently most prevalent and its burdens most egregious.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/378/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Otorhinolaryngology', 'Public Health'], [u'College of Medicine, University of Kentucky', u'College of Public Health, University of Kentucky']]
[u'Comparative genomics and phylogenetic discordance of cultivated tomato and close wild relatives', ['Susan R Strickler', 'Aureliano Bombarely', 'Jesse D Munkvold', 'Naama Menda', 'Gregory B Martin', 'Lukas A Mueller'], u'2014-04-30', u'Background Studies of ancestry are difficult in tomato because it crosses with many wild relatives and species in the tomato clade have diverged very recently. As a result, the phylogeny in relation to its closest relatives remains uncertain. By using coding sequence from Solanum lycopericum, S. galapagense, S. pimpinellifolium, S. corneliomuelleri, and S. tuberosum and genomic sequence from two of cultivated tomato\u2019s closest relatives, S. galapagense and S. pimpinellifolium, as well as an heirloom line, S. lycopersicum \u2018Yellow Pear\u2019, we have aimed to resolve the phylogenies of these closely related species as well as identify phylogenetic discordance in the reference cultivated tomato. Results Divergence date estimates suggest divergence of S. lycopersicum, S. galapagense, and S. pimpinellifolium happened less than 0.5 MYA. Phylogenies based on 8,857 coding sequences support grouping of S. lycopersicum and S. galapagense, although two secondary trees are also highly represented. A total of 29 genes in our analysis showed evidence of selection along the S. lycopersicum lineage. Whole genome phylogenies showed that while incongruence is prevalent in genomic comparisons between these accessions, likely as a result of incomplete lineage sorting and introgression, a primary phylogenetic history was strongly supported. Conclusions Based on analysis of these accessions, S. galapagense appears to be closely related to S. lycopersicum, suggesting they had a common ancestor prior to the arrival of an S. galapagense ancestor to the Gal\xe1pagos Islands, but after divergence of the sequenced S. pimpinellifolium.  Genes showing selection along the S. lycopersicum lineage may be important in domestication. Further analysis of intraspecific data in these species will help to establish the evolutionary history of cultivated tomato. The use of an heirloom line is helpful in deducing true phylogenetic information of S. lycopersicum and identifying regions of introgression from wild species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/377/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Plant Science'], [u'Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research', u'Keygene Inc.', u'Department of Plant Pathology and Plant-Microbe Biology, Cornell University']]
[u'Migratory bottlenecks as integrators of species- and population-level diversity: the Skeena River estuary, its salmon, and industrial development', ['Charmaine N Carr-Harris', 'Allen S. Gottesfeld', 'Jonathan Moore'], u'2014-04-25', u'We quantify how an estuarine migratory bottleneck supports population- and species- level diversity of salmon. The estuary of the Skeena River is under pressure from industrial development, with two gas liquefaction terminals and a potash loading facility in various stages of environmental review processes at the same time as recent changes to Canadian environmental laws have reduced the timeframe for federal environmental assessments. We conducted a juvenile salmonid sampling program throughout the Skeena River estuary in 2007 and 2013. We captured all species of juvenile salmonids throughout the estuary in both years, and found that areas proposed for development support some of the highest abundances of some species of salmonids. Specifically, the highest abundances of sockeye (both years) Chinook in 2007, and coho salmon in 2013 were captured in areas proposed for development. For example, juvenile sockeye salmon were 2-8 times more abundant in the proposed development areas. Genetic stock assignment demonstrated that the Chinook salmon and most of the sockeye salmon that were captured originated from throughout the Skeena watershed, while some sockeye salmon came from the Nass, Stikine, Southeast Alaska, and coastal systems on the northern and central coasts of British Columbia. These fish support extensive commercial, recreational, and First Nations fisheries throughout the Skeena River and beyond. Our results demonstrate that estuary habitats integrate species and population diversity of salmon, and that proposed development in these areas will threaten the fisheries that depend on these fishes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/375/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Earth to Ocean Research Group, Simon Fraser University', u'Skeena Fisheries Commission']]
[u'SPRINGS: Prediction of Protein-Protein Interaction Sites Using Artificial Neural Networks', ['Gurdeep Singh', 'Kaustubh Dhole', 'Priyadarshini P. Pai', 'Sukanta Mondal'], u'2014-04-25', u'Knowledge of protein-protein interaction sites provides an important base for deciphering novel drug targets and applications of enzyme-based studies. But on account of biological complexity and transient forms, determination of these sites is a challenge in biology. Various computational approaches are being explored for relevant prediction based on available protein sequence-structure information. Here we propose a novel method SPRINGS (Sequence-based predictor of PRotein- protein interactING Sites) for identification of interaction sites based on sequences. It uses protein evolutionary information, averaged cumulative hydropathy and predicted relative solvent accessibility from amino acid chains in artificial neural network architecture with a promising performance for protein-protein interactions sites based research and applications.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/266/', ['Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Birla Institute of Technology and Science\u2013Pilani, K.K. Birla Goa Campus']]
[u'Protein structure determination using chemical shifts', ['Anders S Christensen'], u'2014-04-25', u'In this thesis, a protein structure determination using chemical shifts is presented. The method is implemented in the open source PHAISTOS protein simulation framework. The method combines sampling from a generative model with a coarse-grained force field and an energy function that includes chemical shifts. The method is benchmarked on folding simulations of five small proteins. In four cases the resulting structures are in excellent agreement with experimental data, the fifth case fail likely due to inaccuracies in the energy function. For the Chymotrypsin Inhibitor protein, a structure is determined using only chemical shifts recorded and assigned through automated processes. The CA-RMSD to the experimental X-ray for this structure is 1.1 \xc5. Additionally, the method is combined with very sparse NOE-restraints and evolutionary distance restraints and tested on several protein structures >100 residues. For Rhodopsin (225 residues) a structure is found at 2.5 \xc5 CA-RMSD from the experimental X-ray structure, and a structure is determined for the Savinase protein (269 residues) with 2.9 \xc5 CA-RMSD from the experimental X-ray structure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/374/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'BALSA: Integrated secondary analysis for whole-genome and whole-exome sequencing, accelerated by GPU', ['Ruibang Luo', 'Yiu-Lun Wong', 'Wai-Chun Law', 'Lap-Kei Lee', 'Chi-Man Liu', 'Jeanno Cheung', 'Tak-Wah Lam'], u'2014-04-25', u'This paper reports an integrated solution, called BALSA, for the secondary analysis of next generation sequencing data; it exploits the computational power of GPU and an intricate memory management to give a fast and accurate analysis. From raw reads to variants (including SNPs and Indels), BALSA, using just a single computing node with a commodity GPU board, takes 5.5 hours to process 50-fold whole genome sequencing (~750 million 100bp paired-end reads), or just 25 minutes for 210-fold whole exome sequencing. BALSA\u2019s speed is rooted at its parallel algorithms to effectively exploit a GPU to speed up processes like alignment, realignment and statistical testing. BALSA incorporates a 16-genotype model to support the calling of SNPs and Indels and achieves competitive variant calling accuracy and sensitivity when compared to the ensemble of six popular variant callers. BALSA also supports efficient identification of somatic SNVs and CNVs; experiments showed that BALSA recovers all the previously validated somatic SNVs and CNVs, and it is more sensitive for somatic Indel detection. BALSA outputs variants in VCF format. A pileup-like SNAPSHOT format, while maintaining the same fidelity as BAM in variant calling, enables efficient storage and indexing, and facilitates the App development of downstream analyses.\nBALSA is available at: http://sourceforge.net/p/balsa', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/373/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department\xa0of\xa0Computer Science, The University of Hong Kong', u'School of Science and Technology, The Open University of Hong Kong']]
[u'Bio::DB::NextProt: A Perl Module for neXtProt Database Information Retrieval', ['Felipe V Leprevost'], u'2014-04-24', u'The neXtProt database is a comprehensive knowledge platform recently adopted by the Chromosome-centric Human Proteome Project as the main reference database. The primary goal of the project is to identify and catalog every human protein encoded in the human genome. For such, computational approaches have an important role as data analysis and dedicated software are indispensable. Here we describe Bio::DB::NextProt, a Perl module that provides an object-oriented access to the neXtProt REST Web services, enabling the programatically retrieval of structured information. The Bio::DB::NextProt module presents a new way to interact and download information from the neXtProt database. Every parameter available through REST API is covered by the module allowing a fast, dynamic and ready-to-use alternative for those who need to access neXtProt data. Bio::DB::NextProt is an easy-to-use module that provides automatically retrieval of data, ready to be integrated into third-party software or to be used by other programmers on the fly. The module is freely available from from CPAN (metacpan.org/release/Bio-DB-NextProt) and GitHub (github.com/Leprevost/Bio-DB-NextProt) and is released under the perl\\_5 license.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/372/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Laboratory for Proteomics and Protein Engineering, Fiocruz']]
[u'Triclosan causes toxic effects to algae in marine biofilms, but does not inhibit the metabolic activity of marine biofilm bacteria', ['C. Henrik Johansson', 'Lisa Janmar', 'Thomas Backhaus'], u'2014-04-24', u'Effects of the antimicrobial agent triclosan to natural periphyton communities (biofilms, comprising primarily microalgae and bacteria) were assessed in two independent experiments during spring and summer. For that purpose a semi-static test system was used in which periphyton was exposed to a concentration range of 5 \u2013 9 054 nmol/L triclosan. Effects on algae were analyzed as content and composition of photosynthetic pigments. The corresponding EC50 values were 39.25 and 302.45 nmol/L for the spring and summer experiment respectively. Effects on periphytic bacteria were assessed as effects on carbon utilization patterns, using Biolog Ecoplates. No inhibition of either total carbon utilization or functional diversity was observed, indicating a pronounced triclosan tolerance of the marine bacteria. In contrast, a small stimulation of the total carbon utilization was observed at triclosan concentrations exceeding 100 nmol/L.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/371/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Toxicology'], [u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'Meta Products towards a \u201cgait/running style app\u201d', ['Martin Daumer', 'Andreas N. Schneider', 'Damian Mrowca', 'Rui Ding', 'Han Gao', 'Lederer Christian'], u'2014-04-24', u'Background: The individual running style has an impact on the running performance as well as the running injury risk. In order to increase the performance and lower the injury risk, runners should be educated towards a healthy running style. But before advices can be made it is crucial to distinguish running styles from each other.Aim: The stretch goal is to build a running style app, which is able to track and display the user\u2019s current running style by using accelerometry data, based on which advice can be given for a healthy and efficient running style with the help of gaming tools. To validate the approach, a gold standard with outdoor running acceleration data has to be created.Methods: The accelerometry data used by the smartphone app is gathered from the \u201cactibelt\u201d, an accelerometer included in a belt buckle. This sensor collects data close to the body COM in all three dimensions which is transferred to a smartphone via Bluetooth in real-time. The focus of this work is the validation of an acceleration based detection of different running styles, namely heel strikes, midfoot strikes and forefoot strikes. Features, which are able to clearly distinguish different running styles, have to be extracted out of the accelerometry data with machine learning techniques (SVM). Laboratory experiments have been conducted to analyze the actibelt data of three test persons performing heel, midfoot and forefoot strikes on a pressure sensitive treadmill with video control. As running apps are mainly used outdoors, the results had to be reproduced with outdoor running data. In an extreme ends approach four test persons with different running experience ranging from professional to occasional runners were asked to successively run on their heels, midfoot and forefoot, while accelerometry data was recorded and synchronized with mobile high speed video. The different running styles were performed on different substrates, with different shoes and speeds. Discussion/Conclusion: While significant differences in the accelerometry data of the running styles have been observed in the laboratory, those differences couldn\u2019t be reproduced in outdoor environments. Characteristic peak patterns (Lieberman, nature 463, 531-535) could be reproduced in the laboratory but disappeared in outdoor running. The most distorting aspects are the harder and less comfortable surface and an irregular speed compared to treadmill running. Hence, for a reliable detection of the running style, the actibelt data may be complemented by further sensors, e.g. placed in the socks. A promising idea is to influence the stride frequency of runners at given speeds to improve the individual running style.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/370/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Orthopedics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute', u'Department of Data Processing, TUM Munich']]
[u'Swedish high-school pupils\u2019 attitudes towards drugs in relation to drug usage, impulsiveness and other risk factors', ['Fariba Mousavi', 'Danilo Garcia', 'Alexander Jimmefors', 'Trevor Archer', 'Beatrice M Ewalds-Kvist'], u'2014-04-21', u'Background: Illicit drug use influences people\u2019s lives and elicits unwanted here is an increase in young people\u2019s drug use in Sweden. This study aimed to investigate Swedish high-school pupils\u2019 attitudes, impulsiveness and gender differences linked to drug use. Also risk and protective factors relative to drug use were a focus of interest.\nMethod: High school pupils (n = 146) aged 17- 21 years, responded to the Adolescent Health and Development Inventory, Barratt Impulsiveness Scale and Knowledge, and the Attitudes and Beliefs. Direct logistic, multiple regression analyses, and Multivariate Analysis of Variance were used to analyse the data.\nResults: Positive Attitudes towards drugs was predicted by risk factors (odds ratio = 37.31) and gender (odds ratio = .32). Risk factors (odds ratio = 46.89), positive attitudes towards drugs (odds ratio = 4.63), and impulsiveness (odds ratio = 1.11) predicted drug usage. Risk factors dimensions Family, Friends and Individual Characteristic were positively related to impulsiveness among drug users. Moreover, although males reported using drugs to a greater extent, but female expressed more positive attitude towards drugs and even reported more impulsiveness than male students.\nConclusion: This study reinforces the idea that research must focus on gender differences relative to pro-drug attitudes along with testing for differences in the predictors of girls\u2019 and boys\u2019 delinquency and impulsiveness. Positive attitudes towards drugs among adolescents seem to be part of a vicious circle including risk factors, such as friendly drug environments (e.g., friends who use drugs) and unsupportive family environments, individual characteristics, and impulsiveness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/254/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Network for Empowerment and Well-Being, Department of Psychology', u'Centre for Ethics, Law and Mental Health, University of Gothenburg', u'Network for Empowerment and Well-Being, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Psychology, University of Gothenburg', u'Department of Psychology, University of Turku']]
[u'Soil carbon research and global environmental challenges', ['Alfred E Hartemink', 'Rattan Lal', 'Martin H. Gerzabek', 'Bashir Jama', 'Alex McBratney', 'Johan Six', 'Carlos G. Tornquist'], u'2014-04-21', u'The role of soil organic carbon (SOC) in maintaining soil conditions and its resulting services is well established. Currently, over 1,000 articles per year are being published in peer-reviewed journals, and increasing at about 10% per year. It was not until the 1980s when the relation between soils and climate change was noted, and it was realized that soils play a key role as a sink and source of greenhouse gases (GHGs) ( Bouwman 1990, Scharpenseel, Ayoub and Schomaker 1990, Jenny 1980). A large number of research projects have been initiated globally in which soil C is a key component, and there have been some excellent reviews ( Lal 2004, Stockmann et al. 2013, Melillo et al. 2011). Yet, there is a lack of focus in soil C research in relation to current environmental challenges. Here we recommend research priorities to advance the knowledge base and use of soil C in relation to global human and environmental challenges: food and fiber production, water scarcity and purification, energy production, climate change, biodiversity, recycling waste, and environmental degradation. We have listed the priorities under three themes: (i) Soil C in space and time, (ii) Soil C properties and processes, and (ii) Soil C depletion and management.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/366/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Soil Science', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Soil Science, FD Hole Soils Lab, University of Wisconsin - Madison', u'Carbon Management and Sequestration Center, Ohio State University', u'Institute for Soil Research, University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences', u'Alliance for a Green Revolution in Africa (AGRA)', u'Faculty of Agriculture and Environment, The University of Sydney', u'Department of Environmental Systems Science, Elgenossishe Technische Hochschule Zurich (ETH)', u'Department of Soil Science, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS)']]
[u'Pseudo amino acid composition improves antifreeze protein prediction', ['Sukanta Mondal', 'Priyadarshini P. Pai'], u'2014-04-15', u"Antifreeze proteins (AFP) in living organisms play a key role in their tolerance to extremely cold temperatures and have wide range of biotechnological applications. But on account of diversity, their identification has been challenging to biologists. Earlier work explored in this area did not cover introduction of sequence order information, known to represent important properties of various proteins and protein systems for prediction of their attributes. In this study, the effect of Chou's pseudo amino acid composition that presents sequence order of proteins was systematically explored using support vector machines for AFP prediction. Our findings suggest that introduction of sequence order information helps identify AFPs with an accuracy of 84.75% on independent test dataset, outperforming approaches such as AFP-Pred and iAFP. The relative performance calculated using Youden\u2019s Index (Sensitivity + Specificity -1) was found to be 0.71 for our predictor (AFP-PseAAC), 0.48 for AFP-Pred and 0.05 for iAFP. We hope this novel prediction approach will aid in AFP based research for biotechnological applications.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/224/', ['Computational Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Birla Institute of Technology and Science\u2013Pilani, K.K. Birla Goa Campus']]
[u'Clinical trials and Myokines', ['Hellsten Ylva'], u'2014-04-15', u'Background: Cardiovascular disease is a major cause of death in the western world. Regular physical activity is known to be highly beneficial for improving cardiovascular health status. Methods:The current abstract is based on the authors own data and a literature review. The authors own studies have all been accepted by the local ethics committee. In intervention studies the effect of physical training on cardiovascular risk parametres as well as on specific biochemical systems in the cardiovascular system have been studied. Changes in plasma myokine concentrations have been assessed in acute exercise and training interventions in different populations. Results: The conducted studies within the cardiovascular area clearly show that regular physical activity is highly beneficial for vascular function and for reducing blood pressure both in aged individuals and in individuals with life style related disease. An ongoing study at The University of Copenhagen conducted in collaboration with Martin Daumer will show to what extent estrogen loss in connection with menopause in women can be replaced by physical activity and thereby retard the progressive risk for cardiovascular disease commonly seen in women after menopause. Many studies have documented that myokines are elevated in response to exercise but more systematic investigations of how specific myokines are altered in response to various types of intensities and duration of exercise and in different subsets of the population is required to more solidly assess their usefulness as markers of physical health status. Discussion/conclusion: Based on data from our own studies and studies in the literature, physical activity should be recommended for prevention of cardiovascular disease and should be a primary recommendation in treatment of patients with cardiovascular disease to improve overall cardiovascular health. Use of myokines as markers of health status may be useful but selection of the best markers should await further evidence from systematic studies. <!--[endif]-->', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/367/', ['Cell Biology', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Epidemiology', 'Kinesiology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Department of Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, Copenhagen University, Denmark']]
[u'Brief history of computational chemistry: Three distinct eras and the relative importance of theoretical insights and computing power in advancing the field', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2014-04-15', u'The past influences the present and future; for example, in computational chemistry, simplifying assumptions and approximations critical to problem-solving in the pre-computing era remains relevant today in allowing simulation of larger systems with reasonable amount of computational time. By highlighting significant milestones in efforts - from both theoretical and simulation perspectives - aimed at understanding the nature of chemical bond formation, this abstract-only preprint describes a short essay that traces the development and evolution of electronic structure calculation methods over the years, as well as demystify many of the field\u2019s technical terms (jargons) and eponymous method names that has presented a significant entry barrier to newcomers. Schrodinger equation occupies central place in computational chemistry, where the focus was, and will continue to be, the development of methods for its solution. Placing the various methods along a time-line and observing the temporal relationships between them, reveals the clustering of methods into three distinct eras, each defined by their relative reliance on theory, approximations, experimental data and computational power for problem solution. Specifically, building of theoretical models for explaining spectroscopic emission spectra laid the initial foundation of the field when theory lagged behind experimental observations. Promulgation of the Schrodinger equation \u2013 which describes total system energy and properties via a quantum mechanical framework - shifted the research focus of the field towards its solution. Nevertheless, difficulty in solving the equation during the pre-computing era spawned an entire sub-field seeking to develop increasingly refined methods for obtaining approximate solutions. Specifically, semi-empirical methods rely on experimental data to supply parameter values inaccessible via direct calculations from first principles, while approximate methods use simplifications, for example, to obviate the need for calculating cross-interacting terms. Availability of large amount of inexpensive computational power in recent years, however, brought forth ab initio (first principles) simulation methods capable of calculating electronic structure properties of large systems (e.g., long chain biomolecules) with few or no simplifying assumptions. Finally, the chronological thread delineated also provides the backdrop for asking counterfactual (\u201cwhat if\u201d) questions examining, from a historical vantage point, the relative roles of computational power and theoretical intuition in the development of computational chemistry. Contrary to widespread notions that advances in computational chemistry are solely potentiated by increases in computing power, the article argues \u2013 via examples - that the relationship between theoretical imagination and computing power is more nuanced: specifically, the two alternately exert their influence at different junctures during the field\u2019s evolution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/365/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Novena']]
[u'Modeling the population dynamics of lemon sharks', ['Easton R White', 'John D Nagy', 'Samuel H Gruber'], u'2014-04-15', u'Long-lived marine megavertebrates (e.g. sharks, turtles, mammals, and seabirds) are inherently vulnerable to anthropogenic mortality. Although some mathematical models have been applied successfully to manage these animals, more detailed treatments are often needed to assess potential drivers of population dynamics. In particular, factors such as age-structure, density-dependent feedbacks on reproduction, and demographic stochasticity are important for understanding population trends, but are often difficult to assess. Lemon sharks (Negaprion brevirostris) have a pelagic adult phase that makes them logistically difficult to study. However, juveniles use coastal nursery areas where their densities can be high. Thus, we use a stage-structured, Markov-chain stochastic model to describe lemon shark population dynamics from a 17-year longitudinal dataset at a coastal nursery area at Bimini, Bahamas. We found that the interaction between delayed breeding and demographic stochasticity accounts for 33 to 49% of the variance. Demographic stochasticity contributed all random effects in this model, suggesting that the existence of unmodeled environmental factors may be driving the majority of interannual population fluctuations. In addition, we are able to use our model to estimate the natural mortality rate of older age classes of lemon sharks that are difficult to study. Further, we use our model to examine what effect the length of a time series plays on deciphering ecological patterns. We find that \u2014 even with a relatively long time series \u2014 our sampling still misses important rare events. Our approach can be used more broadly to infer population dynamics of other large vertebrates in which age structure and demographic stochasticity are important.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/364/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Victoria', u'School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University', u'Department of Life Sciences, Scottsdale Community College', u'School of Mathematical and Statistical Sciences, Arizona State University', u'RSMAS University of Miami and Bimini Biological Field Station, Bimini Biological Field Station']]
[u'Within country differences of the association between parity and overnutrition in Peruvian women', ['Julio A. Poterico', 'Carlos A. Huayanay-Espinoza', 'Rodrigo Carrillo-Larco', 'J. Jaime Miranda'], u'2014-04-14', u'Background: Evidence denotes a direct association between parity and overnutrition in developing societies. This work aims to assess the relationship between them in Peruvian women, and to investigate whether this association varies by place of residence and socioeconomic status. Methods: We used secondary data from the National Health and Demographic Survey 2011 of Peru (ENDES 2011). Parity was the independent variable, defined as the number of children ever born to a woman. The outcome variable was the body mass index (BMI), with cut-off points of 25-30 kg/m2 and \u226530 kg/m2, for overweight and obesity; respectively. We included other variables due to their potential confounding or modification effect, such as: age, place of residence, wealth index, education, and frequency of watching television. We used a significance level of 5%. Results: We analyzed information of 18262 women. The mean BMI was 25.9 Kg/m2 (SD\xb14.6). The overall prevalence of obesity and overweight was of 17.2% and 35.0%, respectively. Rural and urban women reported having had 2.5 (95%CI: 2.4-2.6) and 1.5 (95%CI: 1.4-1.5) ever born children, respectively. We found a positive association between parity and overnutrition, and identified the effect modification of place of residence and wealth. The relationship between parity with overweight or obesity was stronger in urban than in rural areas. Women in the bottom and top groups of wealth index showed stronger associations than the other categories of socioeconomic status. Conclusion: Our findings suggest that the more childbirths a woman has, the more likely she is of being overweight or obese. This relationship varies by socioeconomic status and area of residence. Identification of increased BMI in women, especially after the first childbirth, should be evaluated in primary care to establish adequate public health policies to tackle obesity in Peruvian women.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/363/', ['Epidemiology', 'Nutrition', 'Public Health', "Women's Health"], [u'CRONICAS, Centre of Excellence in Chronic Diseases, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia', u'Department of Medicine, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia']]
[u'Futures of tropical forests (sensu lato)', ['Francis E Putz', 'Claudia Romero'], u'2014-04-13', u'When net deforestation declines in the tropics, attention will be drawn to the composition and structure of the retained, restored, invaded, and created forests. At that point the seemingly inexorable trends towards increased intensities of exploitation and management will be recognized as having taken their tolls of biodiversity and other forest values. Celebrations when a country passes the \u201cforest transition\u201d (i.e., suffers no net deforestation) will then be tempered by realization that what has been accepted as \u201cforest\u201d spans the gamut from short-rotation mono-clonal stands of genetically engineered trees to fully protected old growth natural forest. With management intensification, climate change, species introductions, landscape fragmentation, fire, and shifts in economics and governance, forests will vary along gradients of biodiversity, novelty of composition, stature, permanence, and the relative roles of natural and anthropogenic forces. Management intensity will increase with the increased availability of financial capital associated with economic globalization, scarcity of wood and other forest products, demand for biofuels, improved governance (e.g., security of property rights), improved accessibility, and technological innovations that lead to new markets for forest products. In a few places the trend towards land-use intensification will be counterbalanced by recognition of the many benefits of natural and semi-natural forests, especially where forest-fate determiners are compensated for revenues foregone from not intensifying management. Land-use practices informed by research will help minimize the tradeoffs between the financial profits from forest management and the benefits of retention of biodiversity and the full range of environmental services.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/362/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Florida, University of Florida', u'Center for International Forestry Research (CIFOR)']]
[u'Shifting thresholds: rapid evolution of migratory life histories in steelhead/rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss', ['Corey Phillis', 'Jonathan W Moore', 'Mathieu Buoro', 'Sean Hayes', 'Carlos Garza', 'Devon Pearse'], u'2014-04-11', u'Expression of phenotypic plasticity depends on reaction norms adapted to historic selective regimes; anthropogenic changes in these selection regimes necessitate contemporary evolution or extirpation. Adaptation of conditional strategies following a change in the selection regime requires evolution of either the environmentally influenced cue (e.g. growth rate) or the state (e.g. size threshold) at which an individual switches between conditional strategies. Using a population of steelhead (Oncorhynchus mykiss) introduced above a barrier waterfall in 1910, we evaluate how the conditional strategy to migrate evolves in response to selection against migration. Common garden-raised offspring of parents from the above-barrier population were 11% smaller and 31% lighter than offspring of parents from the below-barrier source population. Using a novel analytical approach we estimate that the mean size at which above-barrier fish switch between the resident and migrant strategy is 43% larger than below-barrier fish. As a result, above-barrier fish were 30% less likely to express the migratory strategy. Our results demonstrate how rapid and opposing changes in growth rate and threshold size contribute to the contemporary evolution of a conditional strategy and indicate that migratory barriers may elicit rapid evolution towards the resident life-history on timescales relevant for conservation and management of conditionally migratory species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/361/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Earth to Ocean Research Group, Biological Sciences, Simon Fraser University', u'Department of Environmental Studies, University of California, Berkeley', u'Fisheries Ecology Division, Southwest Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service']]
[u'Enzyme characterisation and kinetic modelling of the pentose phosphate pathway in yeast', ['Hanan L. Messiha', 'Edward Kent', 'Naglis Malys', 'Kathleen M. Carroll', 'Neil Swainston', 'Pedro Mendes', 'Kieran Smallbone'], u'2014-04-10', u'We present the quantification and kinetic characterisation of the enzymes of the pentose phosphate pathway in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The data are combined into a mathematical model that describes the dynamics of this system and allows us to predict changes in metabolite concentrations and fluxes in response to perturbations. We use the model to study the response of yeast to a glucose pulse. We then combine the model with an existing glycolysis model to study the effect of oxidative stress on carbohydrate metabolism. The combination of these two models was made possible by the standardised enzyme kinetic experiments carried out in both studies. This work demonstrates the feasibility of constructing larger network-scale models by merging smaller pathway-scale models.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/146/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Faculty of Life Sciences, The University of Manchester', u'Manchester Center for Integrative Systems Biology, The University of Manchester', u'Doctoral Training Centre for Integrative Systems Biology, The University of Manchester', u'School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick', u'School of Chemistry, The University of Manchester', u'School of Computer Science and Manchester Institute of Biotechnology, The University of Manchester', u'Center for Quantitative Medicine and Department of Cell Biology, University of Connecticut Health Center', u'School of Computer Science, The University of Manchester']]
[u'A simple scaling normalization for comparing ChIP-Seq samples', ['Paul Manser', 'Mark Reimers'], u'2014-04-10', u'In ChIP-Seq and DNase-Seq experiments the density of background reads can vary from sample to sample. Differences in background read densities between samples do not necessarily correspond to proportional changes of read densities in true ChIP-Seq peaks. Therefore, scaling by total library size as a means for normalizing called ChIP-Seq peaks across samples may be ineffective. We suggest a simple easily implemented alternative to scaling by total library size that scales only by the total number of reads mapped to called peaks. We then demonstrate the effectiveness of the modified scaling in K4me3 and K27ac ChIP-Seq data from the BrainSpan project as well as DNase-Seq data from the ENCODE project.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/175/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Neuroscience', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biostatistics, Virginia Commonwealth University', u'Virginia Institute for Psychiatric and Behavioral Genetics, Virginia Commonwealth University', u'Department of Psychiatry, Virginia Commonwealth University']]
[u'Visitation and economic impact of whale shark tourism in a Maldivian marine protected area', ['Edgar Fernando Cagua', 'Neal M Collins', 'James Hancock', 'Richard Rees'], u'2014-04-10', u'Whale sharks are a major attraction for tourist divers and snorkelers in South Ari Atoll, Maldives. Yet without information regarding the use and economic extent of the attraction, it is difficult to prioritize conservation or implement effective management plans. Using empirical recreational data and generalized mixed models, this study provides the first economic valuation\u2014via direct spend\u2014of whale shark tourism in Maldives. We estimate that direct expenditure on whale shark excursions in the South Ari Marine Protected Area for 2012\u20132013 at US$7.6 and $9.4 million, respectively. These expenditures are based on an estimate of 72 to 78 thousand tourists who are involved in whale shark excursions annually. This level of visitation and expenditure highlights the need to implement regulations and management which can safeguard the sustainability of the industry through ensuring guest satisfaction and whale shark conservation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/360/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Red Sea Research Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology', u'Maldives Whale Shark Research Programme', u'Global Marine Program, International Union for the Conservation of Nature']]
[u'Comparing the influence of ecology journals using citation-based indices: making sense of a multitude of metrics', ['Daniel J. Hocking'], u'2014-04-09', u'The links among scholarly citations creates a tremendous network that reveals patterns of influence and flows of ideas. The systematic evaluation of the networks can be used to create aggregate measures of journal influence. To understand the citation patterns and compare influence among ecology journals, I complied 11 popular metrics for 110 ecology journals: Journal Impact Factor (JIF), 5-year Journal Impact Factor (JIF), Eigenfactor, Article Influence (AI), Source-Normalized Impact per Paper (SNIP), SCImago Journal Report (SJR), h-index, hc-index, e-index, g-index, and AR-index. All metrics were positively correlated among ecology journals; however, there was still considerable variation among metrics. Annual Review of Ecology Evolution, and Systematics, Trends in Ecology and Evolution, and Ecology Letters were the top three journals across metrics on a per article basis. Proceedings of the Royal Society B, Ecology, and Molecular Ecology had the greatest overall influence on science, as indicated by the Eigenfactor. There was much greater variability among the other metrics because they focus on the mostly highly cited papers from each journal. Each influence metric has its own strengths and weaknesses, and therefore its own uses. Researchers interested in average influence of articles in a journal would be best served by referring to the AI scores or possibly SJR values.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/43/', ['Ecology'], [u'Natural Resources and the Environment, University of New Hampshire']]
[u'Association between in-scanner head motion with cerebral white matter microstructure: a multiband diffusion-weighted MRI study', ['Xiang-zhen Kong'], u'2014-04-09', u'Diffusion-weighted Magnetic Resonance Imaging (DW-MRI) has emerged as the most popular neuroimaging technique used to depict the biological microstructural properties of human brain white matter. However, like other MRI technique, traditional DW-MRI data remains subject to head motion artifacts during scanning. For example, previous studies have indicated that, with traditional DW-MRI data, head motion artifacts significantly affect the evaluation of diffusion metrics. Actually, DW-MRI data scanned with higher sampling rate are important for accurately evaluating diffusion metrics because it allows for full-brain coverage through the acquisition of multiple slices simultaneously and more gradient directions. Here, we employed a publicly available multiband DW-MRI dataset to investigate the association between motion and diffusion metrics with the standard pipeline, tract-based spatial statistics (TBSS). The diffusion metrics used in this study included not only the commonly used metrics (i.e., FA and MD) in DW-MRI studies, but also newly proposed inter-voxel metric, local diffusion homogeneity (LDH). We found that the motion effects in FA and MD seems to be mitigated to some extent, but the effect on MD still exists. Furthermore, the effect in LDH is much more pronounced. These results indicate that researchers shall be cautious when conducting data analysis and interpretation. Finally, the motion-diffusion association is discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/222/', ['Neuroscience', 'Neurology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning & IDG/McGovern Institute for Brain Research, Beijing Normal University', u'Center for Collaboration and Innovation in Brain and Learning Sciences, Beijing Normal University']]
[u'Using question-and-answer and open-ended story-telling for unlocking creative potential in undergraduate research students', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2014-04-09', u'The final year research project, a standard feature of most four year undergraduate curricula, aims to expose undergraduates to research as well as encourage them to use multiple perspectives in thinking creatively and critically about problems. Nevertheless, as most courses in earlier parts of the curriculum focus on well-defined problems with clear answers, a dichotomy exists between the research project\u2019s desired educational outcomes and the undergraduates\u2019 educational preparation. This often manifests as students\u2019 inability at handling the ambiguities of research - which, in turn, leads to lack of motivation or trepidation at their projects. Such unintended negative educational outcomes are not necessarily due to students\u2019 lack of creativity \u2013 and may have more to do with the difficulty of sparking students\u2019 imagination with the paucity of pedagogical techniques available. From demonstrating experimental techniques to discussing new observations, postgraduates are the primary daily point-of-contact for undergraduates in the research lab. But how can postgraduates encourage undergraduates to think critically and creatively? One possibility lies in using common lab observations and experiences for unlocking students\u2019 creative potential. In this abstract-only preprint, I describe two simple pedagogical tools for helping initiate the creative and critical thinking process in students. Specifically, I observed that using the Socratic approach \u2013 that is, question-and-answer - for guiding students in answering their own questions rather than directly providing the answers to them helped ignite the deductive and inductive thinking processes critical to tackling any research problem, as well as improving the students\u2019 self-confidence in arriving at the answers. More important, the tentative steps taken in independent thinking also helped debunk their misconception that there exists a single correct answer for every question in research. Another pedagogical tool was the creative use of seemingly mundane electron and optical micrographs for constructing narratives unrelated to their subject matter. For example, an electron micrograph of a collection of particles poly-dispersed in size and shape was entitled, \u201cPebbles on the river bed,\u201d with a storyline describing children playing happily in a clear stream and, upon looking down, saw small gravel and pebbles on the stream bed. Besides bringing a light-hearted moment into serious research work, such stories also illustrated the utility of thinking about a problem from multiple perspectives; specifically, discovering new and creative interpretations of an image. Collectively, through simple pedagogical tools such as question-and-answer, and open-ended story-telling, postgraduates can guide undergraduate students in thinking critically and creatively via demonstrating the thinking process involved in exploring different perspectives during problem-solving.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/359/', ['Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Metaproduct Prototype on the basis of Runningpad', ['Martin Daumer', 'Patrick Burger'], u'2014-04-08', u'Imagine a world where everything from products to people, spaces and services is connected and together operates as a living network. \u2018Meta Products\u2019 is the next generation of \u2019living\u2019 products, services and spaces referring to the potential of the Internet of Things to reach everywhere and to be embodied in everything. In the current transition period we are living in, we are building new aspirations that demand increasingly clever ways to use the potentially endless amounts of information we can track, sense, measure, share and produce via the constantly improving omnipresent technologies. So we are bringing information-fuelled products and services that will be around us as a network whenever we need them. The result of finding these increasingly clever ways to use information is what we call Meta-Products.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/354/', ['Bioengineering', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Kinesiology', 'Orthopedics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute', u'Department of Electrical Engineering, Technical University of Munich']]
[u'Human Motion Project - Overview', ['Martin Daumer'], u'2014-04-08', u'The vision of the Human Motion Project is to become a successful analogue of the Human Genome Project: improving human health by an open collaborative technology platform for the mobile medical monitoring of human motion. The basis is a growing \u201ccritical path toolbox\u201d and a biomedical data warehouse for collecting, archiving, analysing, and disseminating human motion data including a library of validated algorithms.\nThe "human accelerom", i.e. objective long term information about a person\'s physical activity, carries information about health status and disease risk. It can be used to define novel outcome measures for clinical trials. Physical inactivity should be understood as a modifiable risk factor.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/257/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Clinical Trials', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Kinesiology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Research, SLCMSR e.V. - The Human Motion Institute']]
[u'Foundations of computational psychiatry: a mathematical treatment of embodied cognition and its disorders', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2014-04-07', u"The Data Rate Theorem that establishes a formal linkage between real-time linear control theory and information theory carries deep implications for the study of embodied cognition and its dysfunctions across human, machine, and composite man-machine cockpit entities. The stabilization of such cognition is a dynamic process deeply intertwined with it, constituting, in a sense, the riverbanks directing the flow of a stream of generalized consciousness. The fundamental role of culture in human life has long been understood. Here we argue that, not only is culture, in the words of the evolutionary anthropologist Robert Boyd, 'as much a part of human biology as the enamel on our teeth', but that it is an important part of the disorders of embodied cognition that different communities socially construct as mental illness. A shift in perspective on such illness is badly needed, from naive geneticism and a simplistic 'biomarker' focus to a broad cognitive theory that recognizes the central roles of culture, socioeconomic structure, their histories and their dynamics, in human development. Unfortunately, stabilizing analogs to cultural influence are unavailable to high-order real-time machine and cockpit systems that, increasingly, will be tasked with control of critical enterprises ranging from communication, power, and travel networks to nuclear and chemical reactors, organized deadly force, and so on.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/356/', ['Computational Biology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'The limitations of diversity metrics in directing global marine conservation', ['James PW Robinson', 'Easton R White', 'Logan D Wiwchar', 'Danielle C Claar', 'Justin P Suraci', 'Julia K Baum'], u'2014-04-07', u'Biodiversity hotspots have been used extensively in setting conservation priorities for reef ecosystems. A recent Nature publication claims to have uncovered new hotspots based on global comparisons of functional diversity. Simulation models show that the purported novel evenness pattern is a mathematical inevitability of differences in species richness, as well as an artefact of differences in detectability between vastly different marine ecosystems. Constraints on evenness, along with disparity among communities in possible functional traits, cast doubt on the utility of global functional diversity comparisons for management of marine systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/357/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Victoria', u'Raincoast Conservation Foundation']]
[u'The impact of maths support tutorials on mathematics confidence and academic performance in a cohort of HE Animal Science students', ['Nieky van Veggel', 'Jonathan Amory'], u'2014-04-06', u'Students embarking on a bioscience degree course, such as Animal Science, often do not have sufficient experience in mathematics. However, mathematics form an essential and integral part of any bioscience degree and are essential to enhance employability. This paper presents the findings of a project looking at the effect of mathematics tutorials on a cohort of first year animal science and management students. The results of a questionnaire, focus group discussions and academic performance analysis indicate that small group tutorials enhance students\u2019 confidence in maths and improve students\u2019 academic performance. Furthermore, student feedback on the tutorial programme provides a deeper insight into student experiences and the value students assign to the tutorials.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/355/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Zoology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'School of Sport, Equine and Animal Science, Writtle College']]
[u'A third-generation dispersion and third-generation hydrogen bonding corrected PM6 method: PM6-D3H+', ['Jimmy Charnley Kromann', 'Anders Christensen', 'Casper Steinmann', 'Martin Korth', 'Jan H. Jensen'], u'2014-04-04', u'We present new dispersion and hydrogen bond corrections to the PM6 method, PM6-D3H+, and its implementation in the GAMESS program. The method combines the DFT-D3 dispersion correction by Grimme et al with a modified version of the H+ hydrogen bond correction by Korth. Overall, the interaction energy of PM6-D3H+ is very similar to PM6-DH2 and PM6-DH+, with RMSD and MAD values within 0.02 kcal/mol of one another. The main difference is that the geometry optimizations of 88 complexes result in 82, 6, 0, and 0 geometries with 0, 1, 2, and $\\ge$ 3 imaginary frequencies using PM6-D3H+ implemented in GAMESS, while the corresponding numbers for PM6-DH+ implemented in MOPAC are 54, 17, 15, and 2. The PM6-D3H+ method as implemented in GAMESS offers an attractive alternative to PM6-DH+ in MOPAC in cases where the LBFGS optimizer must be used and a vibrational analysis is needed, e.g. when computing vibrational free energies. While the GAMESS implementation is up to 10 times slower for geometry optimizations of proteins in bulk solvent, compared to MOPAC, it is sufficiently fast to make geometry optimizations of small proteins practically feasible.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/353/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Physics, Chemistry and Pharmacy, University of Southern Denmark', u'Institute of Theoretical Chemistry, Universit\xe4t Ulm']]
[u'Functional enhancement of platelet activation and aggregation by erythrocytes: role of red cells in thrombosis', ['Gabrielle E Brown', 'Leslie S. Ritter', 'Paul F. McDonagh', 'Zoe Cohen'], u'2014-04-02', u'Platelets expose phosphatidylserine (PS), a component of the prothrombinase complex, on the outer surface of the plasma membrane when activated. [ref 1] The prothrombinase complex catalyzes the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin, and it has been demonstrated that an increase in PS exposure is correlated with an increase in thrombin generation by platelets. [refs 2,3] Similarly, erythrocyte (RBC) activation, or eryptosis, is also characterized by PS exposure on the plasma membrane. [ref 4] Although PS exposure on RBCs is considered a signal for splenic macrophage destruction, eryptosis may allow RBCs to contribute to thrombosis.[ref 4] The aims of this study were to determine whether the addition of RBCs to platelets increased functional platelet aggregation and coagulation properties. A ratio of 4 RBCs to 1 platelet (4:1) was evaluated for aggregation and coagulation compared to platelet control. Platelet aggregation and coagulation properties were evaluated with impedance aggregometry and thromboelastography, respectively. The 4:1 experimental group had significant increases in aggregation and coagulation relative to the platelet control. These results indicate that RBCs increase platelet aggregation and coagulation properties. This suggests that RBCs play a role in diseases traditionally thought of as associated solely via dysregulated platelet activation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/351/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Cardiology', 'Hematology'], [u'Physiological Sciences IDP, University of Arizona', u'College of Medicine, University of Arizona', u'Sarver Heart Center, University of Arizona', u'College of Nursing, University of Arizona', u'Department of Physiology, University of Arizona', u'Department of Surgery, University of Arizona']]
[u'scikit-image: Image processing in Python', ['Stefan van der Walt', 'Johannes L Schonberger', 'Juan Nunez-Iglesias', 'Francois Boulogne', 'Joshua D Warner', 'Neil Yager', 'Emmanuelle Gouillart', 'Tony Yu'], u'2014-04-01', u'scikit-image is an image processing library that implements algorithms and utilities for use in research, education and industry applications. It is released under the liberal "Modified BSD" open source license, provides a well-documented API in the Python programming language, and is developed by an active, international team of collaborators. In this paper we highlight the advantages of open source to achieve the goals of the scikit-image library, and we showcase several real-world image processing applications that use scikit-image.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/336/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science', 'Human-Computer Interaction', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Stellenbosch University', u'Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Victorian Life Sciences Computation Initiative', u'Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering, Princeton University', u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, Mayo Clinic', u'AICBT Ltd', u'Joint Unit, CNRS / Saint Gobain', u'Enthought, Inc.']]
[u'Stream grazers determine their crawling direction on the basis of chemical and visual/tactile microalgal cues', ['Izumi Katano', 'Hideyuki Doi'], u'2014-04-01', u'This study aimed to determine the association of herbivore behavior with cues from producers. We used stream grazer Glossosoma larvae and determined their crawling direction in relation to the chemical and visual cues from microalgae. The experimental treatments included control (no cue), particulate (chemical and visual/tactile cues), and dissolved (chemical cue) cues from microalgae. The experimental water samples were randomly placed into either arms of a Y-shaped channel, and the crawling direction of the grazers was determined. Although the grazers crawled toward the arm containing either particulate or dissolved cues, they preferred the arm with particulate cues. This suggested that grazers responded well when both visual/tactile (i.e., drifting algal cells) and chemical cues (algal smell) were present, and that visual/tactile cues were more important for foraging. In natural habitats, grazers detect cues from both producers and predators and use them to maximize fitness by avoiding predation and obtaining food.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/350/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'School of Human Science and Environment, University of Hyogo', u'Institute for Sustainable Sciences and Development, Hiroshima University']]
[u'Computational development of rubromycin-based lead compounds for HIV-1 reverse transcriptase inhibition', ['Pedro J Silva', 'Carlos E. P. Bernardo'], u'2014-04-01', u'The binding of several rubromycin-based ligands to HIV1-reverse transcriptase was analyzed using molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulations. MM-PBSA analysis and examination of the trajectories allowed the identification of several promising compounds with predicted high affinity towards reverse transcriptase mutants which have proven resistant to current drugs. Important insights on the complex interplay of factors determining the ability of ligands to selectively target each mutant have been obtained.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/348/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'Universidade Fernando Pessoa', u'REQUIMTE, Universidade Fernando Pessoa']]
[u'Bacteria as \u201cink\u201d for writing the initials of names on agar', ['Wenfa Ng'], u'2014-04-01', u'Mementos encapsulate memories and serve as triggers for their recollections. By using a purple pigment producing bacterium as \u201cink\u201d for writing on agar, a picture memento depicting the initials of students\u2019 names was created, to help them remember the strong friendships that they had fostered with their fellow course-mates during their final year research projects. Besides the fun activity of \u201cBacterial Calligraphy,\u201d the surface patterning technique can also serve as a simple and relatively low-cost tool for testing the feasibility of research ideas; for example, depositing cells in both straight and curvilinear lines on planar substrates for investigating possible interactions between different microbial species. A synopsis of the work and a structured abstract can be found in the accompanying PDF file, while the original article, \u201cBacterial Calligraphy: A Memento for Undergraduate Research Students,\u201d has been published in the Journal of Microbiology and Biology Education, Vol. 13, No. 2, pp. 172-174, and is available at http://jmbe.asm.org/index.php/jmbe/article/view/414 as an open-access article.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/349/', ['Microbiology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, National University of Singapore']]
[u'Evidence of conditional strategies in human friendship', ['Jennifer Arter'], u'2014-04-01', u'Many species employ conditional strategies for reproduction or survival. In other words, each individual \u201cchooses\u201d one of two or more possible phenotypes to maximize survival or reproductive advantage given specific ecological niche conditions (e.g., Moran, 1992). Humans seem to employ at least one conditional reproductive strategy, choosing between a more short-term or a more long-term mating strategy (Gangestad & Simpson, 2000), and as with non-human animals, their choices relate in part to an assessment of their own traits (Belsky, 1997; Schmitt, 2005). However, the selection pressures that individuals of a species can exert on each other are not restricted to mate selection; they can arise from many forms of social interaction (West-Eberhard, 1983; Wolf, Brodie, & Moore, 1999). Evidence suggests that individuals are sensitive to characteristics of the self, friend, and environmental conditions when choosing friends (Fehr, 1996; Rose, 1985; Verbrugge, 1977), and that a person\u2019s economic, social, and environmental circumstances influence how they form and organize their friendships (Adams & Allan, 1998; Feld & Carter, 1998). Thus, in this paper I hypothesize that humans have evolved a coherent range of conditional friendship strategies: that we vary predictably in terms of the friendships we form, based on an assessment of our own traits, others\u2019 traits, and our own current needs. I propose a continuum of individual differences in friendship strategy, anchored on one end by those who use friendships for exploration (e.g., skill-building and networking) and on the other end by those who use friendships for intimate exchange (e.g., emotional support and intimacy). I created a measure assessing this continuum, and found that men tended to report a stronger exploration strategy than women. I also found that people with a stronger exploration strategy also had a more short-term mating strategy and were more extroverted, and that people with a stronger intimate exchange strategy reported themselves to be more kind and generous; these results remained when controlling for gender. However, friendship strategy did not relate to socioeconomic status, age, attachment avoidance, relationship status, or presence of kin relationships. There was some evidence that friendship strategy was related to the number of friends an individual reported having and how close they felt to their friends.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/347/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Revisiting the first case of insect-bacteria cospeciation: phylogenetic incongruence between aphids and their obligate endosymbiont at subfamily level', ['Lin Liu', 'Xiaolei Huang', 'Yuan Wang', 'Gexia Qiao'], u'2014-03-31', u'It has been widely accepted that aphids and their primary endosymbiotic bacteria Buchnera have strictly parallel diversification relationship. As the first reported case of insect-bacteria cospeciation, this parallel diversification hypothesis has been prevalent, in spite of its basis of limited taxonomic sampling and recent doubts. Here we revisit the evolutionary relationships between aphids and Buchnera by using much more taxa and genomic data (16S rDNA, ATP synthase \u03b2-subunit gene, and gluconate-6-phosphate dehydrogenase gene) to reconstruct the Buchnera phylogeny and test its congruence with the host phylogeny. Comparisons of the Buchnera phylogeny with morphology- and molecular-based aphid phylogenies indicate phylogenetic incongruence between aphids and Buchnera at subfamily level. Current empirical and theoretical evidence indicate two potential mechanisms underlying this incongruence: one is variation in evolutionary rates of Buchnera genomes among different aphid lineages; the other is horizontal transmission of Buchnera during the radiation of extant aphid subfamilies and tribes from their common ancestor.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/346/', ['Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Microbiology', 'Zoology'], [u'Key Laboratory of Zoological Systematics and Evolution, Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'An intergenerational conflict model of age at first birth in humans', ['Cristina Moya', 'Rebecca Sear'], u'2014-03-31', u'Background. Parental absences in childhood are often associated with accelerated reproductive maturity in humans. These results are counterintuitive for evolutionary social scientists because reductions in parental investment should be detrimental for offspring, but earlier reproduction is generally associated with higher fitness. In this paper we discuss a neglected hypothesis that early reproduction is often associated with parental absence because it decreases the average relatedness of a developing child to her future siblings. Method. We illustrate this \u201cintergenerational conflict hypothesis\u201dwith a formal game-theoretic model. Results. We show that parents will generally win reproductive conflicts with children when parents and children share limited household or kin resources, thus prioritizing their own reproduction and delaying offspring reproductive maturity. This is due to the asymmetric relatedness between grandparents and grandchildren (r=.25), compared to siblings (r=0.5) However, if a parent loses or replaces their partner, the conflict between the parent and offspring becomes symmetric since half siblings are as related to one another as grandparents are to grandchildren. This means that the offspring stand to gain more from earlier reproduction when their remaining parent would produce half, rather than full, siblings. We further show that if parents senesce in a way that decreases the quality of their infant relative to their offspring\u2019s infant, the intergenerational conflict can shift to favor the younger generation, suggesting that it is primarily younger parents who should delay their offspring\u2019s reproduction. Discuss. We use insights from this model to discuss the father absence literature and develop predictions about how the effects of parental absences should vary cross-culturally.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/345/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Population Health, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine']]
[u'Mammal camera trapping success in a fragmented suburban landscape', ['Michael Cove', 'Brandon Jones', 'Aaron Bossert', 'Victoria Jackson'], u'2014-03-31', u'Camera traps are commonly used for mammal surveys and many recent studies have published variable trap success rates. All published reports have focused survey efforts in protected areas or large contiguous forests, but we used camera traps in a highly altered suburban landscape. We selected 22 camera trap sites in Warrensburg and Lee\u2019s Summit, Missouri and surveyed for a total of 308 trapnights (TN) of effort. Procyon lotor (raccoon) had the highest trap success (38.96/100 TN), followed by: Didelphis virginiana (Virginia opossum, 37.34/100 TN); Odocoileus virginianus (white tailed deer, 27.92/100 TN); Sciurus niger and S. carolinensis (fox and gray squirrel, 19.48/100 TN); Vulpes vulpes (red fox, 8.77/100 TN); Canis latrans (coyote, 7.79/100 TN); Sylvilagus floridanus (cottontail rabbit, 3.90/100 TN); Urocyon cinereoargenteus (gray fox, 2.92/100 TN); Lynx rufus (bobcat, 1.95/100 TN); and Mephitis mephitis (striped skunk, 1.62/100 TN). These results are higher than any other published findings. We used 1-3 kg of deer meat as bait at each camera station and we believe this increased our trap success of mesopredators (Cove et al., 2012) versus studies that used no bait. However, our trap success for deer, squirrels, and rabbits were also higher than those published and these species were not attracted to bait. We hypothesize that the increased trap success in our study reflects (1) a true state of increased mesopredator abundance due to increased human-derived resources in the suburbs, and (2) concentrated activity of mammals in small fragmented forest patches versus the expansive forest tracts in other studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/344/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology and Agriculture, University of Central Missouri', u'Department of Applied Ecology, North Carolina State University', u'Biology, Rockhurst University']]
[u'Anatomical and biomechanical traits of broiler chickens across ontogeny. Part II. Body segment inertial properties and muscle architecture of the pelvic limb', ['Heather Paxton', 'Peter G Tickle', 'Jeffery W Rankin', 'Jonathan R Codd', 'John R Hutchinson'], u'2014-03-31', u'In broiler chickens, genetic success for desired production traits is often shadowed by welfare concerns related to musculoskeletal health. Whilst these concerns are clear, a viable solution is still elusive. Part of the solution lies in knowing how anatomical changes in afflicted body systems that occur across ontogenyinfluence standing and moving. Here, to demonstrate these changes we quantify the segment inertial properties of the whole body, trunk (legs removed) and the right pelvic limb segments of five broilers at three different age groups across development. We also consider how muscle architecture (mass, fascicle length and other properties related to mechanics) changes for selected muscles of the pelvic limb. Wholelimb morphology is not uniform relative to body size, with broilers obtaining large thighs and feet between four and six weeks of age. This implies that the energetic cost of swinging the limbs is markedly increased across this growth period, perhaps contributing to reduced activity levels. Hindlimb bone length does not change during this period, which may be advantageous for increased stability despite the increased energetic costs. Increased pectoral muscle growth appears to move the centre of mass cranio-dorsally in the last two weeks of growth. This has direct consequences for ventilation (heavier sterna apparatus must be moved with each breath) and locomotion (potentially greater limb muscle stresses during standing andmoving). Our study is the first to measure these changes in the musculoskeletal system across growth in chickens, and reveals how artificially selected changes of the morphology of the pectoral apparatus may cause deficits in locomotion, as well as breathing.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/343/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Structure & Motion Laboratory, Royal Veterinary College, University of London', u'Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester']]
[u'Anatomical and biomechanical traits of broiler chickens across ontogeny. 1. Anatomy of the musculoskeletal respiratory apparatus and changes in organ size.', ['Peter G Tickle', 'Heather Paxton', 'Jeffery W Rankin', 'John R. Hutchinson', 'Jonathan R Codd'], u'2014-03-31', u'Genetic selection for improved meat yields, digestive efficiency and growth rates have transformed the biology of broiler chickens. Modern birds undergo a 50-fold multiplication in body mass in just six weeks, from hatching to slaughter weight. However, this selection for rapid growth and improvements in broiler productivity is also widely thought to be associated with increased welfare problems as many birds suffer from leg, circulatory and respiratory diseases. To understand growth-related changes in musculoskeletal and organ morphology and respiratory skeletal development over the standard six-week rearing period, we present data from post-hatch cadaveric commercial broiler chickens aged 0, 2, 4 and 6 weeks. The heart, lungs and intestines decreased in size for hatch to slaughter weight when considered as a proportion of body mass. Proportional liver size increased in the two weeks after hatch but decreased between 2 and 6 weeks. Breast muscle mass on the other hand displayed strong positive allometry, increasing in mass faster than the increase in body mass. Contrastingly, less rapid isometric growth was found in the external oblique muscle, a major respiratory muscle that moves the sternum dorsally during expiration. Considered together with the relatively slow ossification of elements of the respiratory skeleton, it seems that rapid growth of the breast muscles might compromise the efficacy of the respiratory apparatus. Furthermore, the relative reduction in size of the major organs indicates that selective breeding in meat-producing birds has unintended consequences that may bias these birds toward compromised welfare and could limit further improvements in meat-production and feed efficiency.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/342/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester', u'Structure and Motion Laboratory, Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College']]
[u'Classifying acoustic signals into phoneme categories: average and dyslexic readers make use of complex dynamical patterns', ['Fred Hasselman'], u'2014-03-31', u'Aetiologies of developmental dyslexia often assume a deficit in auditory processing may be causally entailed in the specific learning disorder. The purpose of this study is to compare a number of assumed auditory features that are supposed to evidence the account given by such aetiologies under conditions of strong inference. To do so, the relevant acoustic features were extracted from the same set of artificial speech stimuli that lie on a /bAk/-/dAk/ continuum. Features were tested on their ability to enable a simple classifier (Quadratic Discriminant Analysis) to reproduce the observed classification performance of average and dyslexic readers in a speech perception experiment. The \u2018classical\u2019 features examined were based on component process accounts of developmental dyslexia such as the supposed deficit in Envelope Rise Time detection and the deficit in the detection of rapid changes in the distribution of energy in the frequency spectrum (formant transitions). Studies examining these temporal processing deficit hypotheses remarkably do not employ measures that quantify the temporal dynamics of stimuli. It is shown that measures based on quantification of the dynamics of complex, interaction-dominant systems enable QDA to classify the stimuli almost identically as dyslexic and average reading participants. It seems unlikely that participants used any of the features that are traditionally associated with accounts of (impaired) speech perception that assume classifying speech stimuli amounts to a linear additive interaction of component processes that each parse the acoustic signal independent of one another.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/341/', ['Biophysics', 'Developmental Biology', 'Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Behavioural Science Institute: Learning and Plasticity, Radboud University Nijmegen', u'School of Pedagogical and\xa0Educational Science, Radboud University Nijmegen']]
[u'Cascading effects of a highly specialized beech-aphid-fungus interaction on forest regeneration', ['Susan Susan Cook-Patton', 'Lauren Maynard', 'Nathan Susan Lemoine', 'Jessica Susan Shue', 'John D Parker'], u'2014-03-31', u'Specialist herbivores are often thought to benefit the larger plant community, because they prevent their host species from becoming competitively dominant. In contrast, specialist enemies are not generally expected to have negative impacts on non-hosts. However, we describe a cascade of indirect interactions whereby a specialist sooty mold (Scorias spongiosa) colonizes the honeydew from a specialist beech aphid (Grylloprociphilus imbricator), ultimately decreasing the survival of seedlings beneath American beech trees (Fagus grandifolia). A common garden experiment indicated that this mortality resulted from moldy honeydew impairing leaf function rather than from chemical or microbial changes to the soil. In addition, aphids consistently colonized the same beech trees regardless of host density, suggesting that seedling-depauperate islands may form beneath these trees. Thus this highly specialized three-way beech-aphid-fungus interaction has the potential to impact local forest regeneration via a cascade of indirect effects.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/340/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Smithsonian Environmental Research Center', u'Florida International University']]
[u'Curculio Curculis lupus: biology, behavior and morphology of immatures of the cannibal weevil Anchylorhynchus eriospathae G. G. Bondar, 1943', ['Bruno A S de Medeiros', 'Daniela C Bena', 'Sergio A Vanin'], u'2014-03-31', u'Weevils are one of the largest groups of living organisms, with more than 60,000 species feeding mostly on plants. With only one exception, their described larvae are typical plant-feeders, with mouthparts adapted to chewing plant material. Here we describe the second case of a weevil with early-instar larvae adapted to killing conspecifics. We have studied the life history of Anchylorhynchus eriospathae G. G. Bondar, 1943, a species whose immatures feed internally on palm flowers and fruits. We provide detailed descriptions of all immature stages, including the extremely modified first-instar larva. Unlike other weevils and later instars, this stage exhibits a flat body with very long ventropedal lobe setae, a large and prognathous head with a gula, and falciform mandibles, each with a serrate retinaculum, that are used to fight with and eventually kill other first-instar larvae. We also provide biological notes on all stages and the results of behavioral tests that showed that larval aggression occurs only among early life stages. Finally we show that adult size is highly dependent on timing of oviposition. This specialized killer first instar probably evolved independently from the one other case known in weevils (in Revena rubiginosa). Interestingly, both lineages inhabit the same hosts, raising the possibility that both intra- and inter-specific competition shaped those phenotypes. Given the scarcity of knowledge on early larval stages of concealed insect herbivores, it is possible that our findings represent an instance of a much broader phenomenon. Our observations also allowed us to conclude that Anchylorhynchus eriospathae and A. hatschbachi G. G. Bondar, 1943 are actually the same species, which we synonymize here by considering the latter as a junior synonym (new synonymy).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/339/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Entomology', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Organismic & Evolutionary Biology, Museum of Comparative Zoology, Harvard University', u'Departamento de Zoologia, Instituto de Bioci\xeancias, Universidade de S\xe3o Paulo']]
[u'No association between autistic traits and contextual influences on eye-movements during reading', ['Nathan Caruana', 'Jon Brock'], u'2014-03-31', u'Individuals with autism spectrum disorders are claimed to show a local cognitive bias, termed \u201cweak central coherence\u201d, which manifests in a reduced influence of contextual information on linguistic processing. Here, we investigated whether this bias might also be demonstrated by individuals who exhibit sub-clinical levels of autistic traits, as has been found for other aspects of autistic cognition. The eye-movements of 71 university students were monitored as they completed a reading comprehension task. Consistent with previous studies, participants made shorter fixations on words that were highly predicted on the basis of preceding sentence context. However, contrary to the weak central coherence account, this effect was not reduced amongst individuals with high levels of autistic traits, as measured by the Autism Spectrum Quotient (AQ). Further exploratory analyses revealed that participants with high AQ scores fixated longer on words that resolved the meaning of an earlier homograph. However, this was only the case for sentences where the two potential meanings of the homograph result in different pronunciations. The results provide tentative evidence for differences in reading style that are associated with autistic traits, but fail to support the notion of weak central coherence extending into the non-autistic population.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/338/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University']]
[u'Modeling and simulation of hemodynamic effects during different cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) technologies', ['David Jenkins', 'Hc Zeng'], u'2014-03-31', u'Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation (CPR) is a simple and effective medical treatment for sudden cardiac arrest patients. Because of those existing interferences in the experiments, most of the animal experiments and the CPRs in vivo studies get contradictory conclusions. In this report, according to the current theories of CPR, we got a CPR model; simulated various CPR technologies, and compared their hemodynamic variables. Compared the simulation results and animal experimental data, this report showed that when the External counterpulsation technique applied in CPR, the cardiac output, as well as the diastolic and the aortic pressure would be improved, which was consistent with the results of animal experiments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/334/', ['Anatomy and Physiology', 'Cardiology', 'Translational Medicine', 'Computational Science', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, South China University of Technology']]
[u'Laboratory generation of new Artemia parthenogenetic lineages through contagious parthenogenesis', ['Marta Maccari', 'Francisco Amat', 'Francisco Hontoria', 'Africa Gomez'], u'2014-03-31', u'Contagious parthenogenesis \u2013 a process involving rare functional males produced by a parthenogenetic lineage, which mate with coexisting sexual females resulting in fertile parthenogenetic offspring \u2013 is one of the most striking mechanisms responsible for the generation of new parthenogenetic lineages. Populations of the parthenogenetic diploid brine shrimp Artemia produce fully functional males in low proportions. The evolutionary role of these so-called Artemia rare males is, however, unknown. Here we investigate whether new parthenogenetic clones could be obtained in the laboratory through contagious origin. We assessed the survival and sex ratio of the hybrid ovoviviparous offspring from previous crosses between rare males and females from all Asiatic sexual species, carried out cross-mating experiments between F1 hybrid individuals to assess their fertility, and estimated the viability and the reproductive mode of the resulting F2 offspring. Molecular analysis confirmed the parentage of hybrid parthenogenetic F2. Our study documents the first synthesis of parthenogenetic lineages through contagious parthenogenesis in Artemia. We discuss the possible genetic mechanisms responsible for parthenogenesis and the likelihood of contagious parthenogenesis in natural environments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/333/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Instituto de Acuicultura de Torre de la Sal, Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Cient\xedficas', u'School of Biological, Biomedical and Environmental Sciences, University of Hull', u'School of Biological, Biomedical and Environmental Sciences, University of Hull']]
[u'Beyond birth-weight: Improved ascertainment of early growth predicts blood pressure in Peruvian adolescents', ['Robie Sterling', 'William Checkley', 'Robert H Gilman', 'Lilia Cabrera', 'Charles R Sterling', 'Caryn Bern', 'J. Jaime Miranda'], u'2014-03-31', u'Background: Longitudinal investigations into the origins of adult essential hypertension have found elevated blood pressure in children to accurately track into adulthood, however the direct causes of essential hypertension in adolescence and adulthood remains unclear.\nMethods: Cohort study, we revisited 152 Peruvian adolescents from a birth cohort evaluated with monthly anthropometric measurements between 1995 and 1998, and obtained anthropometric and blood pressure measurements 11 to 14 years later. We used multivariable regression models to study the effects of infantile and childhood growth trends on blood pressure and central obesity in early adolescence.\nResults: In regression models adjusted for childhood growth, each 0.1 SD increase in weight for length from 0 to 5 months of age, and 1 SD increase from 6 to 30 months of age, predicted decreased adolescent systolic blood pressure by 1.3 mm Hg (95% CI -2.4 to -0.1) and 2.5 mm Hg (95% CI -4.9 to 0.0), and decreased waist circumference by 0.6 (95% CI -1.1 to 0.0) and 1.2 cm (95% CI -2.3 to -0.1) respectively. Growth in infancy and early childhood was not a significant predictor of adolescent waist-to-hip ratio.\nConclusions: Rapid compensatory growth in early life has been posited to increase the risk of long-term cardiovascular morbidities such that nutritional interventions may do more harm than good. However, we found increased weight growth during infancy and early childhood to predict decreases in adolescent systolic blood pressure and central adiposity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/332/', ['Cardiology', 'Epidemiology', 'Metabolic Sciences', 'Nutrition', 'Public Health'], [u'CRONICAS Center of Excellence in Chronic Diseases, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia', u'Asociaci\xf3n Ben\xe9fica PRISMA', u'Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care, Johns Hopkins Universtiy', u'Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins School of Public Health', u'Department of Veterinary Science and Microbiology, University of Arizona', u'Global Health Sciences and Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Medicine, University of California San Francisco', u'Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia']]
[u'Mapping the self-association domains of ataxin-1: Identification of novel non overlapping motifs', ['Rajesh Menon', 'Daniel Soong', 'Cesira de Chiara', 'Mark Holt', 'John McCormick', 'N. Anilkumar', 'Annalisa Pastore'], u'2014-03-31', u'The neurodegenerative spinocerebellar ataxia type 1 (SCA1) is caused by aggregation and misfolding of the ataxin-1 protein. While the pathology correlates with mutations that lead to expansion of a polyglutamine tract in the protein, other regions contribute to the aggregation process as also non-expanded ataxin-1 is intrinsically aggregation-prone and forms nuclear foci in cell. Here, we have used a combined approach based on FRET analysis, confocal microscopy and in vitro techniques to map aggregation-prone regions other than polyglutamine and to establish the importance of dimerization in self-association/foci formation. Identification of aggregation-prone regions other than polyglutamine could greatly help the development of SCA1 treatment more specific than that based on targeting the low complexity polyglutamine region.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/259/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology'], [u'Division of Molecular Structure, MRC National Institute of Medical Research', u"Randall Division for Cell and Molecular Biophysics, King's College London", u"British Heart Foundation Centre of Research Excellence, King's College London", u"Department of Molecular Neuroscience, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London"]]
[u'Fish mislabelling in France: substitution rates and retail types', ['Julien Benard-Capelle', 'Victoire Guillonneau', 'Claire Nouvian', 'Nicolas Fournier', 'Karine Le Loet', 'Agnes Dettai'], u'2014-03-31', u'The development of citizen science has brought together scientific expertise and volunteer involvement to answer both scientific and societal questions. In this study, a consortium of citizens, journalist, scientists and non governmental organisations reports the first measure of the market-wide rate of fish mislabelling in France.We collected in fishmonger shops, supermarkets and restaurants and sequenced 390 samples of fish either in fillets or prepared meals, which is the largest dataset assembled to date in an European country.The overall substitution rate is one of the lowest observed for comparable surveys with large sampling in Europe. Remarkably, we detected no case of species mislabelling among the frozen fillets or in industrially prepared meals. We also investigated most of the mislabelling cases detected directly from the sellers. A number of them admitted that the substitution took place at the end of the supply chain.The rate of mislabelling does not differ between species (3.7 %, ci 2.2-6.4%), except for bluefin tuna. Despite a very small sample size (n=6), this species stands in sharp contrast with the low substitution rate observed for the other species (rate between 36 and 99%). This study shows that even in countries where species substitution rate is low, citizen science can enhance the management of natural resources and provide important insights for regulation policies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/327/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'U1001, INSERM', u'BLOOM', u'Oceana Europe', u'Terra eco', u"Syst\xe9matique et Evolution UMR 7205 MNHN-CNRS-UPMC-EPHE, Museum National d'Histoire Naturelles"]]
[u'The Shape of Color: Retinal Cones and Spectral Dispersion', ['John A Medeiros', 'Nancy E Medeiros'], u'2014-03-31', u'Why are the retinal color receptors cone-shaped? This is not a trivial question: the cone shape is evidently a universal feature of the color receptors while the achromatic rod receptors are always rod-shaped. What might be behind this dichotomy has not previously been explored in any meaningful way. We suggest here that the cone shape is not an incidental feature, but actually integral to cone function. We describe a waveguide mode cut-off effect that can physically separate light into its spectral colors along the length of a small, tapered waveguide, i.e., a cone. This effect converts the spectrum of incident light into position-dependent information along a tapered fiber; long-wavelength red light is excluded from the cone first, and the shortest-wavelength, blue light last. The retinal cone optical dimensions are apparently ideally tuned to exhibit this spectral dispersion. Converting this length-correlated information into a readable color code can be accomplished through translation into a time-correlated code through the microsaccadic movements of the eye to synchronize the time-delayed electrical signal generated by photoabsorption events from different positions along the receptor. Such a time code explains the existence of subjective color effects such as that induced by Benham\u2019s Top. Detecting color information through such a waveguide effect also explains the Stiles-Crawford Effect of the Second Kind (SC II) whereby the apparent color of monochromatic light depends on its angle of incidence at the retina. The long puzzling similarity of violet and purple is directly explained by excitation of second-order waveguide mode propagation for short-wavelength light in this model. This dynamic model of color vision also accounts for the breakdown of statically-established metameric color matches under dynamic presentation, a feature of color vision that contradicts the basic assumptions of the standard Young-Helmholtz trichromatic model. Further underscoring the utility of the our proposed model is that it explains the major features of common forms of color blindness as a consequence of \u201cmistuning\u201d of the cone parameters.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/331/', ['Biophysics', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Ophthalmology'], [u'Modeling & Simulation, COLSA Corporation', u'Retina Specialists of North Alabama']]
[u'Toxicity of ciprofloxacin and sulfamethoxazole to marine periphytic algae and bacteria', ['Henrik Johansson', 'Lisa Janmar', 'Thomas Backhaus'], u'2014-03-31', u'Ciprofloxacin and sulfamethoxazole are two antibiotics commonly detected in the aquatic environment, but information on their toxicity towards natural microbial communities is largely absent. In particular no data are available for marine microorganisms. Aim of the current study was therefore to evaluate the chronic toxicity of ciprofloxacin and sulfamethoxazole on natural marine biofilms (periphyton), a complex ecological community comprising a variety of bacterial and algal species. The biofilms were sampled along the Swedish west coast and subsequently exposed over 4 days in a semi-static system to a concentration series of each antibiotic. Effects on the bacterial part of the periphyton community were assessed using Biolog Ecoplates, reflecting total respiration and functional diversity of the bacterial community. Exposure to either antibiotic resulted in a clear concentration-response relationship with EC10 and EC50 values for the inhibition of total carbon source utilization of 46.1 nmol/L and 490.7 nmol/L for ciprofloxacin, respectively 56 and 1073 nmol/L for sulfamethoxazole. The NOEC for ciprofloxacin was 26 nmol/L, with a minimum significant difference of 19.24%, for sulfamethoxazole it was 140 nmol/L with a minimum significant difference of 14%. Multivariate data exploration of the whole carbon source utilization pattern confirmed these results. The data indicate that sulfamethoxazole leads to a general decrease in carbon source utilization, while ciprofloxacin exposure leads to a re-arrangement of the carbon-utilization pattern in the region of 20-50% effect. This corresponds with the higher specificity of ciprofloxacin for certain bacterial species. Effects on the algal part of the communities were evaluated by analyzing the amount and composition of photosynthetic pigments, and neither ciprofloxacin nor sulfamethoxazole caused any inhibitory effects up to the maximum tested concentration of 9 000 nmol/L. However, sulfamethoxazole exposure did lead to a significant stimulation (75% above control level) of the total pigment content of the biofilm already at the lowest tested concentration of 5 nmol/L. The stimulation then decreased with increasing concentrations to finally return to control level at 3 000 nmol/L. No shifts in the relative pigment composition were observed, indicating a generally increased algal biomass without major shifts in community composition.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/330/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology', 'Toxicology'], [u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'The first juvenile specimens of Plateosaurus engelhardti from Frick, Switzerland: Isolated neural arches and their implications for developmental plasticity in a basal sauropodomorph', ['Rebecca Hofmann', 'P. Martin Sander'], u'2014-03-30', u'The dinosaur Plateosaurus engelhardti is the most abundant dinosaur in the Late Triassic of Europe and the best known basal sauropodomorph. Plateosaurus engelhardti was one of the first sauropdomorph dinosaurs to display a large body size. Remains can be found in the Norian stage of the Late Triassic in over 40 localities in Central Europe (France, Germany, Greenland and Switzerland). Since the first discovery of P. engelhardti no juvenile specimens of this species had been found. Here we describe the first remains of juvenile individuals, isolated cervical and dorsal neural arches. These were separated postmortem from their respective centra because of unfused neurocentral sutures. However the specimens share the same neural arch morphology found in adults. Morphometric analysis suggests a body lengths of the juvenile indivduals that is greater than those of most adult specimens. This supports the hypothesis of developmental plasticity in Plateosaurus engelhardti that previously had been based on histological data only. Alternative hypotheses for explaining the poor correlation between ontogenetic stage and size in this taxon are multiple species or sexual morphs with little morphological variance or time-averaging of individuals from populations differing in body size.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/325/', ['Paleontology'], [u'University of Bonn, Division of Paleontology, Steinmann Institute']]
[u'The role of fragmentation and landscape changes in the ecological release of common nest predators in the Neotropics', ['Michael V Cove', 'Manuel Spinola', 'Victoria Jackson', 'Joel Saenz'], u'2014-03-31', u'Loss of large mammalian carnivores may allow smaller mesopredators to become abundant and threaten other community members. There is considerable debate about mesopredator release and the role that other potential factors such as landscape variables and human alterations to land cover lead to increased mesopredator abundance. We used camera traps to detect four mesopredators (tayra, Eira barbara; white-nosed coati, Nasua narica; northern raccoon, Procyon lotor; and common opossum, Didelphis opossum) in a biological corridor in Costa Rica to estimate habitat covariates that influenced the species\u2019 detection and occurrence. We selected these mesopredators because as semi-arboreal species they might be common nest predators, posing a serious threat to resident and migratory songbirds. Pineapple production had a pronounced positive effect on the detectability of tayras, while forest cover had a negative effect on the detection of coatis. This suggests that abundance might be elevated due to the availability of agricultural food resources and foraging activities are concentrated in forest fragments and pineapple edge habitats. Raccoon and opossum models exhibited little influence on detection from habitat covariates. Occurrence models did not suggest any significant factors influencing site use by nest predators, revealing that all four species are habitat generalists adapted to co- existing in human altered landscapes. Furthermore, fragmentation and land cover changes may predispose nesting birds, herpetofauna, and small mammals to heightened predation risk by mesopredators in the Neotropics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/329/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology and Agriculture, University of Central Missouri', u'Department of Applied Ecology, North Carolina State University', u'Instituto Internacional en Conservaci\xf3n y Manejo de Vida Silvestre, Universidad Nacional de Costa Rica']]
[u'Disease dynamics and potential mitigation among restored and wild staghorn coral, Acropora cervicornis', ['Margaret W. Miller', 'Kathryn E. Lohr', 'Caitlin M. Cameron', 'D. E. Williams', 'E. C. Peters'], u'2014-03-31', u'The threatened status (both ecologically and legally) of Caribbean staghorn coral, Acropora cervicornis, has prompted rapidly expanding efforts in culture and restocking, although tissue loss diseases continue to affect populations. In this study, disease surveillance and histopathological characterization were used to compare disease dynamics and conditions in both restored and extant wild populations. Disease had devastating effects on both wild and restored populations, but dynamics were highly variable and appeared to be site-specific with no significant differences in disease prevalence between wild versus restored sites. Disease affected up to 80% of colonies at one site following a tropical storm. A subset of 20 haphazardly selected colonies at each site observed over a single field season revealed widely varying disease incidence, although not in a consistent way between restored and wild sites, and a case fatality rate of 8%. Lastly, two field mitigation techniques, (1) excision of apparently healthy branch tips from a diseased colony, and (2) placement of a band of epoxy fully enclosing the diseased margin, gave equivocal results with no significant benefit detected for either treatment compared to controls. Tissue condition of associated samples was fair to very poor; unsuccessful mitigation treatment samples had severe degeneration of mesenterial filament cnidoglandular bands. Polyp mucocytes in all samples were infected with suspect rickettsia-like organisms; no bacterial aggregates were found. Overall results do not support differing disease quality, quantity, dynamics, or health management strategies between restored and wild colonies of A. cervicornis in the Florida Keys.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/328/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Histology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'NOAA-National Marine Fisheries Service, Southeast Fisheries Science Center', u'Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami', u'Department of Environmental Science and Policy, George Mason University']]
[u'How male signaling intensity influences phonotaxis in virgin female Jamaican field crickets (Gryllus assimilis)', ['Susan M Bertram', 'Karen Pacheco'], u'2014-03-30', u'Understanding female mate preference is important for determining the strength and the direction of sexual trait evolution. Male signalling intensity is often an important predictor of mating success because higher intensity (louder) signallers are detectable at greater distances. However, if females are simultaneously more attracted to higher signalling intensities, then the potential fitness impacts of higher intensity signalling should be elevated beyond what would be expected from detection distance alone. Here we manipulated the signal intensity of cricket mate attraction signals to determine how female phonotaxis was influenced. We examined female phonotaxis using two common methodologies: spherical treadmills and open arenas. Both methodologies showed similar results, with females exhibiting highest phonotaxis towards loud (X\u0305+1 SD = 69 dB) mate attraction signals but showing reduced phonotaxis towards the loudest (X\u0305+2 SD = 77 dB) signals. Reduced phonotaxis towards supernormal stimuli may occur for several reasons including elevating the females\u2019 perceived predation risk, invoking females\u2019 acoustic startle response, or exceeding females\u2019 perceptual limits.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/324/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Biology, Carleton University']]
[u'Speculation versus data-driven conclusions: A response to Gereau et al.\u2019s "Phylogenetic patterns of extinction risk: the need for critical application of appropriate datasets"', ['Barnabas Daru', 'Kowiyou Yessoufou', 'Jonathan Davies'], u'2014-03-29', u'Gereau et al. (2013) criticized our recent analysis on the phylogenetic patterns of extinction risk in the Eastern Arc biodiversity hotspot (Yessoufou et al. 2012). However, Gereau and colleagues based their critique on preconceptions and speculation rather than data. Here we identify several shortfalls in their lines of argument, and suggest that, given current rates of extinction, it is far more dangerous to wait for complete Red List assessments than to explore patterns of threat using available data. Nonetheless, we agree that all analyses should be based upon the best available data, and we encourage the rapid releases of new data on threat status for the flora of the Eastern Arc.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/323/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'African Centre for DNA Barcoding, University of Johannesburg', u'Department of Environmental Sciences, University of South Africa', u'Department of Biology, McGill University']]
[u'Temporal variability predicts the magnitude of between-group attentional blink differences in developmental dyslexia: a meta-analysis', ['Nicholas A Badcock', 'Joanna C Kidd'], u'2014-03-29', u"Background. Here we report on a meta-analysis of the attentional blink (AB) research focussed on specific reading impairment, commonly referred to as developmental dyslexia. The AB effect relates to a limitation in the allocation of attention over time and examined in a dual-target rapid serial visual presentation paradigm. When the second target appears in close temporal proximity to the first target, the second target is reported less accurately.\nMethod. A Web of Science search with terms 'dyslexia attentional blink' returned 13 AB experiments (11 papers) conducted with developmental dyslexia (9 were included in this meta-analysis). The main pattern of performance was lower overall accuracy in groups of individuals with dyslexia relative to typically reading peers. That is, a between-group main effect. This meta-analysis examined the size of the between-group effect in relation to physical presentation characteristics, which differed between and within experiments.\nResults. Four noteworthy variables were related to the between group effect-size; fixation duration (positive relationship, R2 = .89, p <.01, n = 6), maximum temporal position of T2 (negative relationship, R2 = .46, p <.05, n = 9), the difference between the minimum and maximum temporal position of T2 (negative relationship, R2 = .53, p <.05, n = 9), and the stimulus onset asynchrony (negative relationship, R2 = .46, p <.05, n = 9).\nDiscussion. These are discussed with respect to the preparation of task-set, temporal orienting, and speed of processing, recommending these as considerations for future research.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/310/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'ARC Centre of Cognition and its Disorders, Department of Cognitive Science, Macquarie University']]
[u'Objective classification of North Atlantic right whale (Eubalaena glacialis) vocalizations to improve passive acoustic detection', ['Ildar R Urazghildiiev', 'Susan E. Parks'], u'2014-03-29', u'Passive acoustic monitoring is playing an increasing role in the detection of endangered North Atlantic right whales (NARW). Previous acoustic monitoring has relied on a single stereotyped vocalization, the upcall. Here the entire repertoire produced by NARW during the winter and early spring in Cape Cod Bay, Massachusetts is described. An objective sound classification scheme and automatic classification algorithm were developed. Nine days of acoustic recordings were used for the data analysis and a total of 9,611 right whale sounds were identified. The objective classification scheme of right whale sounds allowed for rapid identification of a diversity of right whale sounds. These sounds were assigned to 6 classes of narrowband upcalls, downsweep, complex and high frequency calls, wideband gunshot sounds and complex sounds. Results indicate that the prevalence of upcalls varied from 28% of detected calls in January to 80% in April. Other classes of signals were also well represented in the repertoire including the narrowband complex(10-36%) and high frequency calls (1-26%), wideband gunshot sounds (4-25%) and wideband complex sounds (0 \u2013 25%). The prevalence of non-upcall signals suggests that including more signals classes may improve rates of detection for right whales in the Cape Cod Bay habitat.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/322/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'The Lab of Ornithology, Cornell University', u'Department of Biology, Syracuse University']]
[u'Moral action as cheater suppression in human super organisms: Testing the human superorganism approach to morality', ['Robert Aunger', 'Katie Greenland'], u'2014-03-28', u'Large-scale human groups cannot rely on shared genetic interests or dyadic reciprocity to ensure social cohesion as genetic similarity is low and indirect reciprocity is rife; nevertheless, such societies continue to cohere, due to the evolution of novel regulatory mechanisms that inhibit defaulting on social obligations: moral sentiments and actions. The present paper argues that the extent of moral concern can be most usefully identified by defining the set of functions required to sustain a human \u2018superorganism\u2019. These functions are determined to be boundary, production, distribution, storage, control, structure, enforcement, signaling, memory, excretion, perception and reproductive functions. Moral obligations to act arise when individuals default on contributing to these functions. To test this approach, roughly 80,000 respondents from over 200 countries completed a web-based experiment hosted by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC). This experiment elicited a suite of responses to a set of 33 short scenarios derived from the 13 domains of superorganism function. Results indicate that all functions are moralized, while violations falling outside this domain (social conventions and individual decisions) are not. People living in larger communities exhibited stronger moral sentiments and action propensities, consistent with the greater interdependence of living in groups with more social roles. Such people were also more likely to see the function of the justice system as supporting group-level protection rather than personal recrimination or restitution, were more willing to engage in punishment of those who failed to punish cheaters, and more offended by those who choose not to contribute to social welfare. These results support the contention of Human Superorganism Theory that large-scale human groups strongly rely on moral propensities to regulate those who fail to perform superorganismal functions. Given this supporting evidence, we believe this new approach to defining the moral domain has implications for fields ranging from psychology to legal theory.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/321/', ['Anthropology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Ethical Issues'], [u'London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine']]
[u'Automated analysis of invadopodia dynamics in live cells', ['Matthew E Berginski', 'Sarah J Creed', 'Shelly Cochran', 'David W Roadcap', 'James E Bear', 'Shawn M Gomez'], u'2014-03-28', u'Multiple cell types form specialized protein complexes, podosomes or invadopodia and collectively referred to as invadosomes, which are used by the cell to actively degrade the surrounding extracellular matrix. Due to their potential importance in both healthy physiology as well as in pathological conditions such as cancer, the characterization of these structures has been of increasing interest. Following early descriptions of invadopodia, assays were developed which labelled the matrix underneath metastatic cancer cells allowing for the assessment of invadopodia activity in motile cells. However, characterization of invadopodia using these methods has traditionally been done manually with time-consuming and potentially biased quantification methods, limiting the number of experiments and the quantity of data that can be analysed. We have developed a system to automate the segmentation, tracking and quantification of invadopodia in time-lapse fluorescence image sets at both the single invadopodia level and whole cell level. We rigorously tested the ability of the method to detect changes in invadopodia formation and dynamics through the use of well-characterized small molecule inhibitors, with known effects on invadopodia. Our results demonstrate the ability of this analysis method to quantify changes in invadopodia formation from live cell imaging data in a high throughput, automated manner.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/320/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'UNC/NCSU Joint Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Cell Biology and Physiology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Howard Hughes Medical Institute', u'Department of Computer Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Pharmacology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Limited geographic genetic structure detected in a widespread Palearctic corvid, Nucifraga caryocatactes', ['Kimberly M Dohms', 'Theresa M Burg'], u'2014-03-28', u'The Eurasian or spotted nutcracker (Nucifraga caryocatactes) is a widespread resident corvid found throughout the Palearctic from Central Europe to Japan. Characterized by periodic bouts of irruptive dispersal in search of Pinus seed crops, this species has potential for high levels of gene flow across its range. Previous analysis of 11 individuals did not find significant range-wide population genetic structure. We investigated population structure using 924 base pairs of mitochondrial DNA control region sequence data from 62 individuals from 12 populations distributed throughout the nutcracker\u2019s range. We complemented this analysis by incorporating additional genetic data from previously published sequences. High levels of genetic diversity and limited population genetic structure were detected suggesting that potential barriers to dispersal do not restrict gene flow in nutcrackers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/319/', ['Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Biological Sciences, University of Lethbridge']]
[u'In vitro transcription accurately predicts lac repressor phenotype in vivo in Escherichia coli', ['Matthew Sochor'], u'2014-03-28', u'A multitude of studies have looked at the in vivo and in vitro behavior of the lac repressor binding to DNA and effector molecules in order to study transcriptional repression, however these studies are not always reconcilable. Here we use in vitro transcription to directly mimic the in vivo system in order to build a self consistent set of experiments to directly compare in vivo and in vitro genetic repression. A thermodynamic model of the lac repressor binding to operator DNA and effector is used to link DNA occupancy to either normalized in vitro mRNA product or normalized in vivo fluorescence of a regulated gene, YFP. An accurate measurement of repressor, DNA and effector concentrations were made both in vivo and in vitro allowing for direct modeling of the entire thermodynamic equilibrium. In vivo repression profiles are accurately predicted from the given in vitro parameters when molecular crowding is considered. Interestingly, our measured repressor-operator DNA affinity differs significantly from previous in vitro measurements. The literature values are unable to replicate in vivo binding data. We therefore conclude that the repressor-DNA affinity is much weaker than previously thought. This finding would suggest that in vitro techniques that are specifically designed to mimic the in vivo process may be necessary to replicate the native system.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/317/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics. Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania']]
[u'Continental variation in wing pigmentation in Calopteryx damselflies is related to the presence of heterospecifics', ['Christopher Hassall'], u'2014-03-28', u'Wing pigmentation in Calopteryx damselflies, caused by the deposition of melanin, is energetically expensive to produce and enhances predation risk. However, patterns of melanisation are used in species identification, greater pigmentation is an accurate signal of male immune function in at least some species, and there may be a role for pigment in thermoregulation. This study tested two potential hypotheses to explain the presence of, and variation in, this pigmentation based on these three potential benefits using 907 male specimens of Calopteryx maculata collected from 49 sites (34 discrete populations) across the geographical range of the species in North America: (i) pigmentation varies with the presence of the closely related species, Calopteryx aequabilis, and (ii) pigment increases at higher latitudes as would be expected if it enhances thermoregulatory capacity. No gradual latitudinal pattern was observed, as might be expected if pigmentation was involved in thermoregulation. However, strong variation was observed between populations that were sympatric or allopatric with C. aequabilis. This variation was characterised by dark wings through allopatry in the south of the range and then a step change to much lighter wings at the southern border of sympatry. Pigmentation then increased further north into the sympatric zone, finally returning to allopatry levels at the northern range margin. These patterns are qualitatively similar to variation in pigmentation in C. aequabilis, meaning that the data are consistent with what would be expected from convergent character displacement. Overall, the results corroborate recent research that has suggested sexual selection as a primary driver behind the evolution of wing pigmentation in this group.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/316/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Entomology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'School of Biology, University of Leeds']]
[u'Assessing the impact of human trampling on vegetation: a systematic review and meta-analysis of experimental evidence', ['Oliver L. Pescott', 'Gavin Stewart'], u'2014-03-28', u'Vegetation trampling resulting from recreation can adversely impact natural habitats, leading to the loss of vegetation and the degradation of plant communities. A considerable primary literature exists on this topic, therefore it is important to assess whether this accumulated evidence can be used to reach general conclusions concerning vegetation vulnerability to inform conservation management decisions. Experimental trampling studies on a global scale were retrieved using a systematic review methodology and synthesised using random effects meta-analysis. The relationships between vegetation recovery and each of initial vegetation resistance, trampling intensity, time for recovery, Raunkiaer life-form (perennating bud position), and habitat were tested using random effects multiple meta-regressions and subgroup analyses. The systematic search yielded 304 studies; of these, nine reported relevant randomized controlled experiments, providing 188 vegetation recovery effect sizes for analysis. The synthesis indicated there was significant heterogeneity in the impact of trampling on vegetation recovery. This was related to resistance and recovery time, and the interactions of these variables with Raunkiaer life-form, but was not strongly dependent on the intensity of the trampling experienced. The available evidence suggests that vegetation dominated by hemicryptophytes and geophytes recovers from trampling to a greater extent than vegetation dominated by other life-forms. Variation in effect within the chamaephyte, hemicryptophyte and geophyte life-form sub-groups was also explained by the initial resistance of vegetation to trampling, but not by trampling intensity. Intrinsic properties of plant communities appear to be the most important factors determining the response of vegetation to trampling disturbance. Specifically, the dominant Raunkiaer life-form of a plant community accounts for more variation in the resilience of communities to trampling than the intensity of the trampling experienced, suggesting that simple assessments based on this trait could guide decisions concerning sustainable access to natural areas. Methodological and reporting limitations must be overcome before more disparate types of evidence can be synthesised; this would enable more reliable extrapolation to non-study situations, and a more comprehensive understanding of how assessments of intrinsic plant traits can be used to underpin conservation management decisions concerning access.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/315/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Plant Science'], [u'Centre for Ecology & Hydrology', u'School of Agriculture, Food & Rural Development, University of Newcastle']]
[u'dDocent: a RADseq, variant-calling pipeline designed for population genomics of non-model organisms', ['Jonathan Puritz', 'Christopher M. Hollenbeck', 'John R. Gold'], u'2014-03-28', u'Restriction-site associated DNA sequencing (RADseq) has become a powerful and useful approach for population genomics. Currently, no software exists that utilizes both paired-end reads from RADseq data to efficiently produce population-informative variant calls, especially for organisms with large effective population sizes and high levels of genetic polymorphism but for which no genomic resources exist. dDocent is an analysis pipeline with a user-friendly, command-line interface designed to process individually barcoded RADseq data (with double cut sites) into informative SNPs/Indels for population-level analyses. The pipeline, written in BASH, uses data reduction techniques and other stand-alone software packages to perform quality trimming and adapter removal, de novo assembly of RAD loci, read mapping, SNP and Indel calling, and baseline data filtering. Double-digest RAD data from population pairings of three different marine fishes were used to compare dDocent with Stacks, the first generally available, widely used pipeline for analysis of RADseq data. dDocent consistently identified more SNPs shared across greater numbers of individuals and with higher levels of coverage. This is most likely due to the fact that dDocent quality trims instead of filtering and incorporates both forward and reverse reads in assembly, mapping, and SNP calling, thus enabling use of reads with Indel polymorphisms. The pipeline and a comprehensive user guide can be found at (http://dDocent.wordpress.com).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/314/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Marine Genomics Laboratory, Harte Research Institute, Texas A&M Corpus Christi']]
[u'Feeding behaviour of Caenorhabditis elegans is an indicator of Pseudomonas aeruginosa PAO1 virulence', ['Shawn Lewenza', 'Laetitia Charron-Mazenod', 'Lauriane Giroux', 'Alexandra D Zamponi'], u'2014-03-28', u'Caenorhabditis elegans is commonly used as an infection model for pathogenesis studies in Pseudomonas aeruginosa. While the standard virulence assays rely on the slow and fast killing or paralysis of nematodes, here we developed a behaviour assay to monitor the preferred bacterial food sources of C. elegans. The type III secretion system is a well-conserved virulence trait that is not required for slow or fast killing of C. elegans. However, \u0394exsE mutants that are competent for hypersecretion of ExoS, ExoT and ExoY effectors were avoided as food sources in binary assays. Conversely, mutants lacking the secretion machinery or type III effectors were preferred food sources for PAO1. In binary feeding assays, both food sources were ingested and observed in the gastrointestinal tract, but non-preferred food sources were ultimately avoided. Next we developed a high throughput feeding behaviour assay to test a library of 2370 transposon mutants in order to identify preferred food sources. After primary and secondary screens, 37 mutants were identified as preferred food sources, which included mutations in many known virulence genes and that showed reduced virulence in the slow killing assay. We propose that C. elegans feeding behaviour can be used as a sensitive indicator of virulence for bacterial strains that have moderate worm killing activity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/313/', ['Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Microbiology, Immunology and Infectious Diseases/Faculty of Medicine/Snyder Institute for Chronic Diseases, University of Calgary', u'Faculty of Medicine, University of Calgary']]
[u'Butyrate and other Short-Chain Fatty Acids Increase the Rate of Lipolysis in 3T3-L1 Adipocytes', ['John M. Rumberger', 'Jonathan R.S. Arch', 'Allan Green'], u'2014-03-28', u'We determined the effect of butyrate and other short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) on rates of lipolysis in 3T3-L1 adipocytes. Prolonged treatment with butyrate (5 mM) increased the rate of lipolysis approximately 2-3-fold. Aminobutyric acid and acetate had little or no effect on lipolysis, however propionate stimulated lipolysis, suggesting that butyrate and propionate act through their shared activity as histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors. Consistent with this, the HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (1 \u03bcM) also stimulated lipolysis to a similar extent as did butyrate. Western blot data suggested that neither mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) activation nor perilipin down-regulation are necessary for SCFA-induced lipolysis. Stimulation of lipolysis with butyrate and trichostatin A was glucose-dependent. Changes in AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) phosphorylation mediated by glucose were independent of changes in rates of lipolysis. The glycolytic inhibitor iodoacetate prevented both butyrate- and Tumor necrosis factor-alpha-(TNF-\u03b1 ) mediated increases in rates of lipolysis indicating glucose metabolism is required. However, unlike TNF-\u03b1 - , butyrate-stimulated lipolysis was not associated with increased lactate release or inhibited by activation of pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDH) with dichloroacetate. These data demonstrate an important relationship between lipolytic activity and reported HDAC inhibitory activity of butyrate, other short-chain fatty acids and trichostatin A. Given that HDAC inhibitors are presently being evaluated for the treatment of diabetes and other disorders, more work will be essential to determine if these effects on lipolysis are due to inhibition of HDAC.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/312/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Bassett Healthcare', u'Buckingham Institute of Translational Medicine, University of Buckingham', u'Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry, SUNY Oneonta']]
[u'Quantitative trait loci for energy balance traits in an advanced intercross line derived from mice divergently selected for heat loss', ['Larry Leamy', 'Kari Elo', 'Merlyn K Nielsen', 'Stephanie Thorn', 'William Valdar', 'Daniel Pomp'], u'2014-03-28', u'Obesity in human populations, currently a serious health concern, is considered to be the consequence of an energy imbalance in which more energy in calories is consumed than is expended. We used interval mapping techniques to investigate the genetic basis of a number of energy balance traits in an F11 advanced intercross population of mice created from an original intercross of lines selected for increased and decreased heat loss. We uncovered a total of 137 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for these traits at 41 unique sites on 18 of the 20 chromosomes in the mouse genome, with X-linked QTLs being most prevalent. Two QTLs were found for the selection target of heat loss, one on distal chromosome 1 and another on proximal chromosome 2. The number of QTLs affecting the various traits generally was consistent with previous estimates of heritabilities in the same population, with the most found for two bone mineral traits and the least for feed intake and several body composition traits. QTLs were generally additive in their effects, and some, especially those affecting the body weight traits, were sex-specific. Pleiotropy was extensive within trait groups (body weights, adiposity and organ weight traits, bone traits) and especially between body composition traits adjusted and not adjusted for body weight at sacrifice. Nine QTLs were found for one or more of the adiposity traits, five of which appeared to be unique. The confidence intervals among all QTLs averaged 13.3 Mb, much smaller than usually observed in an F2 cross, and in some cases this allowed us to make reasonable inferences about candidate genes underlying these QTLs. This study combined QTL mapping with genetic parameter analysis in a large segregating population, and has advanced our understanding of the genetic architecture of complex traits related to obesity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/311/', ['Genetics'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of North Carolina at Charlotte', u'Department of Agricultural Sciences, University of Helsinki', u'Department of Animal Science, University of Nebraska', u'Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado', u'Department of Genetics, University of North Carolina']]
[u"Biochemical 'Cambrian events': on the evolution of biological codes", ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2014-03-28', u"Tlusty's topological analysis of the genetic code suggests ecosystem changes in available metabolic free energy that predated the aerobic transition enabled a punctuated sequence of increasingly complex genetic codes and protein translators, protein folding codes, and monosaccharide cell-surface codes. These coevolved via various 'Cambrian explosions' until, very early on, the ancestors of the present narrow spectrum of such biological machineries outcompeted other codings and became evolutionarily locked in at surprisingly modest levels of fitness likely reflecting a modest embedding metabolic free energy ecology. Thus biochemical 'Cambrian singularities' must have occurred at different scales and levels of organization on Earth, with competition or chance-selected outcomes frozen at a far earlier period than the physical bauplan Cambrian explosion. Beyond codes, other examples might include explosive variations in mechanisms of photosynthesis, and the subsequent manifold oxygen metabolisms. Intermediate between Cambrian bauplan and genetic code, variants remain today, even after evolutionary pruning, often protected in specialized ecological niches. It is even possible to interpret the most basic biological 'coding' from this perspective, i.e., homochirality. This suggests that, under other astrobiological ecologies, different spectra of biochemical codes and other mechanisms may survive in appropriate niches.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/308/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Ploidy of Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus megaterium, and three new isolates of Bacillus and Paenibacillus', ['Benjamin Bottinger', 'Karolin Zerulla', 'Jorg Soppa'], u'2014-03-26', u'Bacteria were long assumed to be monoploid, maintaining one copy of a circular chromosome. In recent years it became obvious that the majority of species in several phylogenetic groups of prokaryotes are oligoploid or polyploid, e.g. in halophilic and methanogenic archaea, proteobacteria, and cyanobacteria. The present study aimed at investigating the distribution of ploidy in an additional group of prokaryotes, i.e. in the gram-positive genus Bacillus. First, the numbers of origins and termini of the two laboratory strains Bacillus subtilis and Bacillus megaterium were quantified using an optimized real time PCR approach. B. subtilis was found to be mero-oligoploid in exponential phase with, on average, 5.9 origins and 1.2 termini. In stationary phase the average numbers of origins per cell was considerably smaller. B. megaterium was found to be polyploid in exponential phase with about 12 copies of the origin and terminus. Again, the ploidy level was down-regulated in stationary phase. To verify that oligo-/polyploidy is not confined to strains with a long history of growth in the laboratory, three strains were newly isolated from soil, which were found to belong to the genera of Bacillus and Paenibacillus. All three strains were found to be oligoploid with a growth-phase dependent down-regulation of the ploidy level in stationary phase. Taken together, these results indicate that oligo-/polyploidy might be more widespread in Bacillus and related genera than assumed until now and that monoploidy is not typical.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/306/', ['Biochemistry', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Goethe University']]
[u'Prey aggregation is an effective olfactory predator avoidance strategy', ['Asa Johannesen', 'Alison M Dunn', 'Lesley J Morrell'], u'2014-03-26', u'Predator-prey interactions have a major effect on species abundance and diversity and aggregation is a well-known anti-predator behavior. For immobile prey, the effectiveness of aggregation depends on two conditions: (a) the inability of the predator to consume all prey in a group and (b) detection of a single large group not being proportionally easier than that of several small groups. While the benefits of grouping to avoid visually hunting predators are well understood, the potential costs and benefits of aggregation when visual cues are not available are not well understood. We carried out foraging (predation) experiments using a fish predator and (dead) chironomid larvae as prey in both laboratory and field settings. In the laboratory, a reduction in visual cue availability (in turbid water) led to a delay in the location of aggregated prey compared to when visual cues were available, but aggregated prey suffered high mortality once discovered, leading to better survival of dispersed prey in the longer term (this was likely due to their inability to take evasive action and due to prey groups being small). In the field (where prey were placed in feeding stations that allowed transmission of olfactory but not visual cues), aggregated (large groups) and semi-dispersed prey survived for longer than dispersed prey \u2013 including long term survival. Together, our results indicate that like in systems where predators hunt using vision, aggregation is an effective anti-predator behavior for prey avoiding olfactory predators.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/305/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Nesvik Marine Centre, Fiskaaling', u'School of Biology, University of Leeds', u'School of Biological, Biomedical and Environmental Sciences, University of Hull']]
[u'Dose dependent role of Emodin and BTB14431 in suspension colon cancer model in rats', ['Stephan Rogalla', 'Jana Pohlenz', 'Vanessa Garcia', 'Gerold Koplin', 'Kirsten Fuehrer', 'Andreas Lun', 'Wolfgang Dubiel', 'Caroline F. Geier', 'Chris Braumann'], u'2014-03-26', u'Background. An \u201cIn Silico 2D/3D Conformer Screening\u201d for structural similar antitumor substances to Curcumin was carried out and the novel antrachinone BTB14431 was found. Emodin, contained in several Chinese medical plants and BTB14431 are known to be potential inhibitors of the COP9-signalosome - stabilizing the tumor suppressor protein p53. The aim of this study was to analyze the suppressing effects on colorectal cancer in a standardized rat model (WAG/Rij).\nMethods. A suspension of CC531 colon cancer cells was applied to the cecum after laparotomy and, additionally, at the back of animals. Therapy was conducted twice daily for 7 days, with increasing doses of BTB14431, Emodin and with isotone sodium chloride solution (control) intravenously (iv) or intraperitoneally (ip). Therapy was initiated the day of tumor cell application. Peripheral blood samples were taken before surgery and on day 7. 21 days after the end of therapy, the animals were euthanized and tumor growth was evaluated.\nResults. Data showed a downward trend of the total tumor growth after iv and ip treatment with low doses of BTB14431 and Emodin. Differential blood analysis showed apoptosis, but no major changes in hemogram. Increasing doses of Emodin elevated total mortality rate exponentially.\nConclusions.Although apoptosis was verified, no significant tumor suppressing effects could be observed for iv and ip treatment of both agents in our model. This stays in contrast to former in vitro studies. Agents remain viable novel substances. They will be the subject of upcoming studies. Additional data is needed to evaluate the significance of the \u201cIn Silico Screening\u201d to identify potential in vivo anti-tumor drugs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/304/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Oncology', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Department of Pediatrics and Neonatology, Stanford University', u'General, Visceral, Vascular and Thoracic Surgery, Charit\xe9 University Medicine Berlin', u'CSU East Bay', u'Institute for Laboratorial and Pathobiochemical Medicine, Charit\xe9 University Medicine Berlin', u'Division of Molecular Biology, Charit\xe9 University Medicine Berlin']]
[u'Brain transcriptome sequencing and assembly of three songbird model systems for the study of social behavior', ['Christopher N Balakrishnan', 'Motoko Mukai', 'Rusty A Gonser', 'John C Wingfield', 'Sarah E London', 'Elaina M Tuttle', 'David F Clayton'], u'2014-03-25', u'Emberizid sparrows (emberizidae) have played a prominent role in the study of avian vocal communication and social behavior. We present here brain transcriptomes for three emberizid model systems, song sparrow Melospiza melodia, white-throated sparrow Zonotrichia albicollis, and Gambel\u2019s white-crowned sparrow Zonotrichia leucophrys gambelii. Each of the assemblies covered fully or in part, over 89% of the previously annotated protein coding genes in the zebra finch Taeniopygia guttata, with 16,846, 15,805, and 16,646 unique BLAST hits in song, white-throated and white-crowned sparrows, respectively. As in previous studies, we find tissue of origin (auditory forebrain versus hypothalamus and whole brain) as a primary determinant of overall expression profile. We also demonstrate the successful isolation of RNA and RNA-sequencing from post-mortem samples from building strikes and suggest that such an approach could be useful when traditional sampling opportunities are limited. These transcriptomes will be an important resource for the study of social behavior in birds and for data driven annotation of forthcoming whole genome sequences for these and other bird species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/297/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Biology, East Carolina University', u'Department of Food Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Cornell University', u'Department of Neurobiology, Physiology and Behavior, University of California', u'Department of Biology & The Center for Genomic Advocacy (TCGA), Indiana State University', u'Deparment of Psychology, Institute for Mind and Body, University of Chicago', u'Division of Biological & Experimental Psychology, School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London']]
[u'Ferritin is required at multiple stages during the embryonic development of Drosophila melanogaster', ['Nicanor Gonzalez-Morales', 'Fanis Missirlis', 'Miguel Angel Mendoza-Ortiz', 'Liisa M Blowes', 'Juan R Riesgo-Escovar'], u'2014-03-24', u'In Drosophila, iron is stored in the endomembrane system of cells inside a protein cavity formed by 24 ferritin subunits of two types (Fer1HCH and Fer2LCH) in a 1:1 stoichiometry. Ferritin accumulates in the midgut, nervous system, hemolymph and nephrocytes of Drosophila larvae. Here, we show that mutation of either ferritin gene product or deletion of both genes resulted in a similar set of phenotypes of embryonic lethality, ranging from non-deposition of cuticle to developmental defects associated with germ band retraction, dorsal closure and head involution. Maternal contribution of ferritin, which varied reflecting the mother\u2019s iron stores, is used in early development, but zygotic ferritin mutants died with ectopic apoptotic events and disrupted intestinal morphology. The embryonic nervous system of ferritin mutants presented ventral nerve cord disruptions, misguided axonal projections and brain malformations. Finally, ferritin accumulation was also observed in embryonic hemocytes. One ferritin mutant showed no hemocyte ferritin accumulation and this expression was also lost by genetic inhibition of the secretory pathway. Our work suggests that insect ferritin functions in iron storage, intercellular iron transport and protection from oxidative stress at multiple times during the embryonic development of Drosophila melanogaster.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/301/', ['Cell Biology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Genetics'], [u'Departamento de Neurobiolog\xeda del Desarrollo y Neurofisiolog\xeda, Instituto de Neurobiolog\xeda, Universidad Nacional Aut\xf3noma de M\xe9xico, Campus UNAM Juriquilla', u'Institut de Biologie Valrose, iBV, CNRS, UMR 7277', u'Departmento de Fisiolog\xeda, Biof\xedsica y Neurociencias, Centro de Investigaci\xf3n y de Estudios Avanzados del Instituto Polit\xe9cnico Nacional', u'School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary University of London']]
[u'Automatic Document Classification for Environmental Risk Assessment', ['Kyle Painter', 'Steven Dutton', 'Elizabeth O Owens', 'Lyle Burgoon'], u'2014-03-24', u'Motivation: In environmental risk assessment, information about potential health risks of chemicals released into the environment is compiled and distilled for use in informing public policy. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) produces Integrated Science Assessments (ISA) that provide a review of literature on air pollutants, including nitrogen oxides (NOx). That review process currently requires much human labor to evaluate thousands of potentially-relevant documents published each year, a problem this study seeks to alleviate by using automated topic classification methods. Results: For this study, abstracts and titles of scientific documents about NOx were labeled by subject matter experts in four domains relevant to ISAs: toxicology, atmospheric science, epidemiology, and exposure science. In addition, documents not relevant to the four domains were included to simulate the background literature that we want to filter out of consideration. The labeled documents were used to train models using a Naive Bayes Multinomial classifier, via the Weka data mining platform. Separate tests were performed using multi-class or single-class models, and including background literature or not including it. For the multi-class models, recall (% of all documents in a class that are classified correctly) for scientific domains ranged between 74% and 94%, with precision (% of classified documents that are in the desired class) between 38% and 93%, with models created with background literature performing worse than models without the background documents. Single-class models had precision that ranged from 31% to 90%, and recall that ranged from 84% to 98%, with better precision for models not using background literature, but better overall recall for models using background literature. Single-class models generally performed better than multi-class models in recall, though multi-class models without the background screen tended to be best for precision.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/300/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Toxicology', 'Computational Science', 'Science Policy'], [u'Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education', u'National Center for Environmental Assessment, United States Environmental Protection Agency']]
[u'Castration modulates singing patterns and electrophysiological properties of ra projection neurons in adult male zebra finches', ['Dongfeng Li', 'Songhua Wang', 'Congshu Liao', 'Shaoyi Liu', 'Fengling Li', 'Wei Meng'], u'2014-03-24', u'Castration can change levels of plasma testosterone. Androgens such as testosterone play an important role in stabilizing birdsong. The robust nucleus of the arcopallium (RA) is an important premotor nucleus critical for singing. In this study, we investigated the effect of castration on singing patterns and electrophysiological properties of projection neurons (PNs) in the RA of adult male zebra finches.Adult male zebra finches were castrated and the changes in bird song assessed. We also recorded the electrophysiological changes from RA PNs using patch clamp recording. We found that the plasma levels of testosterone were significantly decreased, song syllable\u2019s entropy was increased and the similarity of motif was decreased after castration. Spontaneous and evoked firing rates, membrane time constants, and membrane capacitance of RA PNs in the castration group were lower than those of the control and the sham groups. Afterhyperpolarization\uff08AHP\uff09time to peak of spontaneous action potential (AP) was prolonged after castration.These findings suggest that castration decreases song stereotypy and excitability of RA PNs in male zebra finches.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/247/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Neuroscience'], [u'School of Life Science, South China Normal University']]
[u'Modified generalized method of moments for a robust estimation of polytomous logistic model', ['Xiaoshan Wang'], u'2014-03-23', u'The maximum likelihood estimation (MLE) method, typically used for polytomous logistic regression, is prone to bias due to both misclassification in outcome and contamination in the design matrix. Hence, robust estimators are needed. In this study, we propose such a method for nominal response data with continuous covariates. A generalized method of weighted moments (GMWM) approach is developed for dealing with contaminated polytomous response data. In this approach, distances are calculated based on individual sample moments. And Huber weights are applied to those observations with large distances. Mellow-type weights are also used to downplay leverage points. We describe theoretical properties of the proposed approach. Simulations suggest that the GMWM performs very well in correcting contamination-caused biases. An empirical application of the GMWM estimator on data from a survet demonstrates its usefulness.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/299/', ['Epidemiology', 'Statistics'], [u'Center For Clinical And Translational Research, Forsyth Institute', u'Department Of Oral Health Policy And Epidemiology, Harvard School Of Dental Medicine']]
[u'Biogeographic patterns in the cartilaginous fauna (Pisces: Elasmobranchii and Holocephali) in the southeast Pacific Ocean', ['Carlos Bustamante', 'Carolina Vargas-Caro', 'Michael B Bennett'], u'2014-03-21', u'The abundance and species richness of the cartilaginous fish community of the continental shelf and slope off central Chile is described, based on fishery-independent trawl tows made in 2006 and 2007. A total of 194,705 specimens comprising 20 species (9 sharks, 10 skates, 1 chimaera ) were caught at depths of 100 \u2013 500 m along a 1,000 km transect between 29.5\xb0 S and 39\xb0 S. Sample site locations were grouped to represent eight geographical zones within this latitudinal range. Species richness fluctuated from 1 to 6 species per zone. There was no significant latitudinal trend for sharks, but skates showed an increased species richness with increasing latitude. Standardised catch per unit effort increased with increasing depth for sharks, but not for skates, but the observed trend for increasing CPUE with latitude was not significant for either sharks or skates. A change in community composition occurred along the depth gradient with the skates, Psammobatis rudis, Zearaja chilensis and Dipturus trachyderma dominating communities between 100 and 300 m, but small-sized, deep-water dogfishes, such as Centroscyllium spp . dominated the catch between 300 and 500 m. Cluster and ordination analysis identified one widespread assemblage, grouping 58% of sites, and three shallow-water assemblages. Assemblages with low diversity ( coldspots ) coincided with highly productive fishing grounds for demersal crustaceans and bony fishes. The community distribution suggested that the differences between assemblages may be due to compensatory changes in mesopredator species abundance, as a consequence of continuous and unselective species removal. Distribution patterns and the quantitative assessment of sharks, skates and chimaeras presented here complement extant biogeographic knowledge and further the understanding of deep-water ecosystem dynamics in relation to fishing activity in the south-east Pacific Ocean.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/298/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Programa de Conservaci\xf3n de Tiburones (Chile)', u'School of Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland']]
[u'A complete, multi-level conformational clustering of antibody complementarity-determining regions', ['Dimitris Nikoloudis', 'Jim E. Pitts', 'Jose W. Saldanha'], u'2014-03-20', u'Classification of antibody Complementarity-Determining Region (CDR) conformations is an important step that drives antibody modelling and engineering, prediction from sequence, directed mutagenesis and induced-fit studies, and allows inferences on sequence-to-structure relations. Most of the previous work performed conformational clustering on a reduced set of structures or after application of various structure pre-filtering criteria. In this study, it was judged that a clustering of every available CDR conformation would produce a complete and redundant repertoire, increase the number of sequence examples and allow better decisions on structure validity in the future. In order to cope with the potential increase in data noise, a first-level statistical clustering was performed using structure superposition Root-Mean-Square Deviation (RMSD) as a distance-criterion, coupled with second- and third-level clustering that employed Ramachandran regions for a deeper qualitative classification. The classification of a total of 12712 CDR conformations is thus presented, along with rich annotation and cluster descriptions, and the results are compared to previous major studies. The present repertoire has procured an improved image of our current CDR Knowledge-Base, with a novel nesting of conformational sensitivity and specificity that can serve as a systematic framework for improved prediction from sequence as well as a number of future studies that would aid in knowledge-based antibody engineering such as humanisation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/291/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Immunology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Birkbeck College, University of London', u'Division of Mathematical Biology, National Institute for Medical Research']]
[u'Disjoint combinations profiling (DCP): a new method for the prediction of antibody CDR conformation from sequence', ['Dimitris Nikoloudis', 'Jim E. Pitts', 'Jose W. Saldanha'], u'2014-03-20', u'The accurate prediction of the conformation of Complementarity-Determining Regions (CDRs) is important in modelling antibodies for protein engineering applications. Specifically, the Canonical paradigm has proved successful in predicting the CDR conformation in antibody variable regions. It relies on canonical templates which detail allowed residues at key positions in the variable region framework or in the CDR itself for 5 of the 6 CDRs. While no templates have as yet been defined for the hypervariable CDR-H3, instead, reliable sequence rules have been devised for predicting the base of the CDR-H3 loop. Here a new method termed Disjoint Combinations Profiling (DCP) is presented, which contributes a considerable advance in the prediction of CDR conformations. This novel method is explained and compared with canonical templates and sequence rules in a 3-way blind prediction. DCP achieved 93% accuracy over 951 blind predictions and showed an improvement in cumulative accuracy compared to predictions with canonical templates or sequence-rules. In addition to its overall improvement in prediction accuracy, it is suggested that DCP is open to better implementations in the future and that it can improve as more antibody structures are deposited in the databank. In contrast, it is argued that canonical templates and sequence rules may have reached their peak.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/292/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Immunology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Birkbeck College, University of London', u'Division of Mathematical Biology, National Institute for Medical Research']]
[u'RICHE \u2013 Research Inventory, Indicators, Gaps and Roadmaps for Child Health in Europe - an EU FP7 project', ['Anthony Staines', 'Michael Rigby', 'Matilde Leonardi', 'Ulrike Ravens-Sieberer', 'Ales Bourek', 'Mitch E Blair', 'Giorgio Tamburlini', 'Margarida Gaspar de Matos', 'Anne McCarthy', 'Veronika Ottova-Jordan', 'Denise Alexander', 'Jean Kilroe', 'Mel McIntyre', 'Sophie Alexander', 'Angela Brand', 'Allan Colver', 'Candace Currie', 'Jose A. Diaz Huertas', 'Mika Gissler', 'Else Karin  Grholt', 'Geir Gunnlaugsson', 'Csilla Kaposvari', 'Reli Mechtler', 'Antony R Morgan', 'Kinga Polanska', 'Livia L Popescu', 'Hein Raat', 'Polonca Truden', 'Toomas Veidebaum', 'Anders Hjern', 'Milda Cerniauskaite', 'Lauren K Brennan', 'Laura Cogoy', 'Gina Tome', 'Con Hennessy', 'Wojciech Hanke', 'Maria Roth', "Rachel O'Sullivan", 'Paolo Meucci', 'Carsten Rasche', 'Teresa Santos', 'Treasa McVeigh', 'Tania Gaspar', 'Lucia Ramiro', 'Lennart Kohler'], u'2014-03-19', u"Background There is a substantial amount of research in child health published each year in the European Union. Much of this work is paid for from public funds, or from charitable donations. This work covers many areas, but it is fragmented, and a great deal of it, especially the material not published in the indexed scientific literature, is hard to find, and harder to access. Response The EU, as one of the major funders of child health research, has funded a project, the Research Inventory of Child Health in Europe (RICHE), to prepare a roadmap for the future of child health research in Europe. Using a life course perspective, the project sought to identify the research done, define the gaps in the research, and make recommendations for future research funding priorities. Content RICHE is an FP7 funded project (contract no. 242181) tasked with preparing roadmaps for the future of child health research across Europe. Using a life-course perspective, the project has designed, and carried out, an open, transparent, and justifiable process to make recommendations for future research funding. We acknowledge that such recommendations are value judgements, and our aim was to present carefully justified value judgements. The project, which had 25 partners, in 19 countries, was organised into six workpackages \u2013 WP1 an inventory of child health research, including funded projects, reports, funders, and people; WP2 on ways of measuring child health, and indicators for child health; WP3 on gaps in child health research; WP4 on the roadmaps for future research; WP5 maintains a platform at http://childhealthresearch.eu/ ; WP6 was responsible for project management. Results The project has finished, and launched a report on 'Roadmaps for the Future of Child Health Research in Europe'. A key recommendation is the establishment of a European Child Health Observatory, with a focus on participation by children and young people. The work of implementing these proposals to improve the health of European children can begin.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/295/', ['Epidemiology', 'Health Policy', 'Pediatrics', 'Public Health', 'Science Policy'], [u'School of Nursing and Human Sciences, Dublin City University', u'Nordic School for Public Health', u'Fondazione IRCCS, Istituto Neurologico Carlo Besta', u'Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, Psychotherapy, and Psychosomatics; Research Unit Child Public Health, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf', u'Center for Healthcare Quality, Masarykova Univerzita', u'River Island Academic Centre for Paediatrics and Child Health, Northwick Park, Imperial College', u'Institute for Child Health, I.R.C.C.S. materno infantile Burlo Garofolo', u'Centro de Estudos de Educa\xe7\xe3o para a Sa\xfade, FMH, Universidade de Lisboa', u'Evidence Unit, Health Research Board', u'Open Applications Consulting Ltd.', u'PERU, Universite Libre de Bruxelles', u'Institute for Public Health Genomics, Cluster Genetics & Cell Biology, Universiteit Maastricht', u'Institute of Health and Society, University of Newcastle upon Tyne', u'School of Medicine, Medical & Biological Sciences, University of St. Andrews', u'Sociedad Espa\xf1ola de Pediatr\xeda Social', u'National Institute for Health and Welfare THL', u'Department of Health Statistics, Norwegian Institue of Public Health (Nasjonalt Folkehelseinstitutt)', u'School of Health and Education, Reykjavik University', u'Eg\xe9szs\xe9g Monitor', u'Institute for Health System Research, Johannes Kepler University', u'Centre for Public Health, National Institute of Health and Care Excellence', u'Department of Environmental Epidemiology, Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine', u'Faculty of Sociology and Social Work, Universitatea Babes Bolyai', u'Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC - University Medical Center Rotterdam', u'National Institute of Public Health', u'Department of Chronic Diseases, Estonian Centre for Behavioral and Health Studies, National Institute for Health Development', u'Clinical Epidemiology, Department of Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Centre for Health Equity Studies', u"Haven Paddington, St Mary's Hospital, Kings College Hospital NHS Foundation Trust", u'Nofer Institute of Occupational Medicine', u'CMDT/IHMT, Universidade Nova de Lisboa']]
[u'Comparison of histomorphology and DNA preservation produced by fixatives in the veterinary diagnostic laboratory setting', ['Michael J. Dark', 'William F. Craft', 'Julia A. Conway'], u'2014-03-19', u'Histopathology is the most useful tool for diagnosis of a number of diseases, especially cancer. To be effective, histopathology requires that tissues be fixed prior to processing. Formalin is currently the most common histologic fixative, offering many advantages: it is cheap, readily available, and pathologists are routinely trained to examine tissues fixed in formalin. However, formalin fixation substantially degrades tissue DNA, hindering subsequent use in diagnostics and research. We therefore evaluated three alternative fixatives, TissueTek\xae Xpress\xae Molecular Fixative, modified methacarn, and PAXgene\xae, all of which have been proposed as formalin alternatives, to determine their suitability for routine use in a veterinary diagnostic laboratory. This was accomplished by examining the histomorphology of sections produced from fixed tissues as well as the ability to amplify fragments from extracted DNA. Tissues were sampled from two dogs and four cats, fixed for 24-48 hours, and processed routinely. While all fixatives produced acceptable histomorphology, formalin had significantly better morphologic characteristics than the other three fixatives. Alternative fixatives generally had better DNA amplification than formalin, although results varied somewhat depending on the tissue examined. While no fixative is yet ready to replace formalin, the alternative fixatives examined may be useful as adjuncts to formalin in diagnostic practices.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/296/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Pathology'], [u'Department of Infectious Diseases and Pathology, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Florida', u'Emerging Pathogens Institute, University of Florida']]
[u'The relative roles of politics and science: William Bateson, black slavery, eugenics and speciation', ['Donald R Forsdyke'], u'2014-03-19', u'William Bateson\u2019s background and training suggest sympathy with the black emancipation movement. Yet the movement\u2019s success is attributed more to battles between political figures, than between scientists with contending views on the biology of racial differences. Perhaps, in the long term, Bateson\u2019s contributions to slavery andeugenic issues will be seen as no less important than those of politicians. Mendel\u2019sdiscovery of what we now know as \u201cgenes\u201d languished until seized upon by Bateson in 1900. For six exhausting years he struggled to win scientific acceptance of these biological character-determining units. Later, he pressed the Mendelian message home to the general public, opposing simplistic applications of Mendelian principles to human affairs, and arguing that minor genic differences that distinguished races \u2013 e.g. skin colour \u2013 can seldom initiate new species. Indeed, the spark that initiates a divergence into two species can be non-genic. We are one reproductively isolated population, the human species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/294/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Ethical Issues', 'Legal Issues', 'Science Policy'], [u"Biomedical and Molecular Sciences, Queen's University"]]
[u'Modulatory interactions between the default mode network and task positive networks in resting-state', ['Xin Di', 'Bharat B. Biswal'], u'2014-03-18', u'The two major brain networks, i.e. the default mode network (DMN) and the task positive network, typically reveal negative and variable connectivity in resting-state. In the present study, we examined whether the connectivity between the DMN and different components of the task positive network were modulated by other brain regions by using physiophysiological interaction (PPI) on resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging data. Spatial independent component analysis was first conducted to identify components that represented networks of interest, including the anterior and posterior DMNs, salience, dorsal attention, left and right executive networks. PPI analysis was conducted between pairs of these networks to identify networks or regions that showed modulatory interactions with the two networks. Both network-wise and voxel-wise analyses revealed reciprocal positive modulatory interactions between the DMN, salience, and executive networks. Together with the anatomical properties of the salience network regions, the results suggest that the salience network may modulate the relationship between the DMN and executive networks. In addition, voxel-wise analysis demonstrated that the basal ganglia and thalamus positively interacted with the salience network and the dorsal attention network, and negatively interacted with the salience network and the DMN. The results demonstrated complex modulatory interactions among the DMNs and task positive networks in resting-state, and suggested that communications between these networks may be modulated by some critical brain structures such as the salience network, basal ganglia, and thalamus.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/124/', ['Neuroscience'], [u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, New Jersey Institute of Technology']]
[u'Falls as outcome in clinical trials', ['Jorg Goldhahn', 'Niklas Konig'], u'2014-03-18', u'Falls have significant impact on affected individuals. They may lead to injuries including fractures, hospitalization, decrase in mobility, and loss of independence. Therefore, falls constitute a relevant outcome parameter in clinical trials. However, especially elderly and frail patients may forget to report or neglect falls. The use of fall-detection technology in clinical trials may overcome this challenges. However, commercially-available fall-detection technologies are designed as personal emergency response systems rather than as measurement tools to assess the effects of an intervention. Hence, before adopting a commercially-availablefall-detection technology in a clinical trial one has to assess its suitability for such application.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/293/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Geriatrics', 'Orthopedics'], [u'Musculoskeletal Translational Medicine, Novartis Institutes for Biomedical Research', u'Institute for Biomechanics, ETH Zurich']]
[u'Photosynthesis is not a universal feature of the phylum Cyanobacteria', ['Rochelle M Soo', 'Connor T Skennerton', 'Yuji Sekiguchi', 'Michael Imelfort', 'Samuel J Paech', 'Paul G Dennis', 'Jason A Steen', 'Donovan H Parks', 'Gene W Tyson', 'Philip Hugenholtz'], u'2014-03-17', u'Molecular surveys of aphotic habitats have indicated the presence of major uncultured lineages phylogenetically classified as members of the Cyanobacteria. One of these lineages has recently been proposed as a non-photosynthetic sister phylum to the Cyanobacteria, the Melainabacteria, based on recovery of standard draft population genomes from human gut and groundwater samples. Here, we expand the phylogenomic representation of the Melainabacteria through sequencing of six diverse population genomes from gut and bioreactor samples supporting the inference that this lineage is non-photosynthetic, but not the assertion that they are strictly fermentative. We propose that the Melainabacteria is a class within the phylogenetically defined Cyanobacteria based on robust monophyly and shared ancestral traits with photosynthetic representatives. Our findings are consistent with theories that photosynthesis occurred late in the Cyanobacteria and involved extensive lateral gene transfer, and refutes the long held belief that oxygenic photosynthesis is a universal feature of this phylum.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/204/', ['Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Australian Centre for Ecogenomics, University of Queensland', u'Biomedical Research Institute, National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST)']]
[u'Human Motion Project - The importance of patient compliance', ['Miriam Porter'], u'2014-03-16', u'For a patient to be compliant in wearing a device it is necessary to consider many factors as early on as at the time of device conception. These factors are divided up into outside influences and patient behavior. Outside influences can come from the treating physician\u2019s attitude about the device or the patient\u2019s own family. Any device affecting or altering patient\u2019s behavior/lifestyle will have a major impact on compliance. It is necessary to invest time and money in order to identify these factors to understand which type of patient populations will be compliant.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/287/', ['Orthopedics'], [u'Novartis']]
[u'Accessing biological data in R with semantic web technologies', ['Egon Willighagen'], u'2014-03-16', u"Background. Semantic Web technologies are increasingly used in biological database systems. The improved expressiveness shows advantages in tracking provenance and allowing knowledge to be more explicitly annotated. The list of semantic web standards needs a complementary set of tools to handle data in those formats to use them in bioinformatics workflows.\nMethods. The approach proposed in this paper uses the Apache Jena library to create an environment where semantic web technologies can be used in the statistical environment R. The code is exposed as two R packages available from the Comprehensive R Archive Network (CRAN). The RJava library and a custom convenience class is used to bridge between R and the Jena library.\nResults. We here present three examples showing how the Resource Description Framework (RDF) and SPARQL query standards can be employed in R. The first example takes input on BRCA1 SNPs from a BioMart and converts this into a RDF data set. The second example runs a query on an experimental remote SPARQL end point provided by Uniprot, and searches textual annotations of proteins encoded by the BRCA1 gene. The third example shows how the package can be used to handle RDF returned by OpenTox web services.\nDiscussion. The two provided library bring basic semantic web technologies to R. This paper only shows examples from the biology domain, but we believe the approaches are generally applicable. It currently only exposes a subset of key Apache Jena, but the rrdf package makes it easy to make more of the library's functionality, such as the shortest path finding. The rrdf libraries are freely available from the CRAN under the Affero GNU Public License version 3: http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rrdf/.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/185/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Bioinformatics - BiGCaT, NUTRIM, Maastricht University', u'Division of Molecular Toxicology, IMM, Karolinska Institutet']]
[u'In a fit of pique: Analyzing microbial ChIP-Seq data with Pique', ['Russell Y Neches', 'Phillip M Seitzer', 'Elizabeth G Wilbanks', 'Marc T Facciotti'], u'2014-03-15', u'While numerous effective peak finders have been developed for eukaryotic systems, we have found that the approaches used can be error prone when run on high coverage bacterial and archaeal ChIP-Seq datasets. We have developed Pique, an easy to use ChIP-Seq peak finding application for bacterial and archaeal ChIP-Seq experiments. The software is cross-platform and Open Source, and based on only freely licensed dependencies. Output is provided in standardized file formats, and may be easily imported by the Gaggle Genome Browser (Bare et al. 2010) for manual curation and data exploration, or into statistical and graphics software such as R (R Core Team 2013) for further analysis. The software is available under the BSD-3 license, and tutorial and test data are included with the documentation.\nhttp://github.com/ryneches/pique.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/290/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics'], [u'Genome Center, University of California, Davis', u'Microbiology Graduate Group, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Biomedical Engineering, University of California, Davis']]
[u'SHAPS-C: The Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale modified for clinician administration', ['Rezvan Ameil', 'David A Luckenbaugh', 'Neda F Gould', 'M. Kathleen Holmes', 'Niall Lally', 'Elizabeth D Ballard', 'Carlos A Zarate Jr.'], u'2014-03-14', u'Anhedonia, a diminished or lack of ability to experience and anticipate pleasure represents a core psychiatric symptom in depression. Current clinician assessment of anhedonia is generally limited to one or two all-purpose questions and most well-known psychometric scales of anhedonia are relatively long, self-administered, typically not state sensitive, and are unsuitable for use in clinical settings. A user-friendly tool for a more in-depth clinician assessment of hedonic capacity is needed. The present study assessed the validity and reliability of a clinician administered version of the Snaith-Hamilton Pleasure Scale, the SHAPS-C, in 34 depressed subjects. We compared total and specific item scores on the SHAPS-C, SHAPS (self-report version), Montgomery-\xc5sberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS), and the Inventory of Depressive Symptomatology-Self Rating version (IDS-SR). We also examined construct, content, concurrent, convergent, and discriminant validity, internal consistency, and split-half reliability of the SHAPS-C. The SHAPS-C was found to be valid and reliable. The SHAPS and the SHAPS-C were positively correlated with one another, with levels of depression severity, as measured by the MADRS, and the IDS-SR total scores, and with specific items of the MADRS and IDS-SR sensitive to measuring hedonic capacity. Our investigation indicates that the SHAPS-C is a user friendly, reliable, and valid tool for clinician assessment of hedonic capacity in depressed bipolar and unipolar patients.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/288/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'National Institutes of Mental Health, National Institutes of Health', u'Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine', u"Department of Clinical Psychology, St. John's University", u'Institute of Cognitive Neuroscience, University College London']]
[u'On growth and form of a heteromorphic terrestrial snail: Plectostoma concinnum (Fulton, 1901) (Mollusca: Gastropoda: Diplommatinidae)', ['Thor-Seng Liew', 'Annebelle CM Kok', 'Menno Schilthuizen', 'Severine Urdy'], u'2014-03-14', u'The molluscan shell can be viewed as a petrified representation of the organism\u2019s ontogeny and thus can be used as a record of changes in form during growth. However, little empirical data is available on the actual growth and form of shells, as these are hard to quantify and examine simultaneously. To address these issues, we studied the growth and form of a heteromorphic and heavily ornamented land snail \u2013 Plectostoma concinnum. The growth data were collected in a natural growth experiment and the actual form changes of the aperture during shell ontogeny were quantified. We used an ontogeny axis that allows data of growth and form to be analysed simultaneously. Then, we examined the association between the growth and the form during three different whorl growing phases, namely, the regular coiled spire phase, the transitional constriction phase, and the distortedly-coiled tuba phase. In addition, we also explored the association between growth rate and the switching between whorl growing mode and rib growing mode. As a result, we show how the changes in the aperture ontogeny profiles in terms of aperture shape, size and growth trajectory, and the changes in growth rates, are associated with the different shell forms at different parts of the shell ontogeny. These associations suggest plausible constraints that underlie the three different shell ontogeny phases and the two different growth modes. We found that the mechanism behind the heteromorphy is the rotational changes of the animal\u2019s body and mantle edge with respect to the previously secreted shell. Overall, we propose that future study should focus on the role of the mantle and the columellar muscular system in the determination of shell form.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/289/', ['Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute Biology Leiden, Leiden Univerisity', u'Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation, Universiti Malaysia Sabah', u'Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica', u'Anatomy Department, University of California San Francisco']]
[u'Characterisation of the horse transcriptome from immunologically active tissues', ['Joanna Moreton', 'Sunir Malla', 'Aziz Aboobaker', 'Rachael Tarlinton', 'Richard D Emes'], u'2014-03-14', u'The immune system of the horse has not been well studied, despite the fact that the horse displays several features such as sensitivity to bacterial lipopolysaccharide that make them in many ways a more suitable model of some human disorders than the current rodent models. The difficulty of working with large animal models has however limited characterisation of gene expression in the horse immune system with current annotations for the equine genome restricted to predictions from other mammals and the few described horse proteins. This paper outlines sequencing of 184 million transcriptome short reads from immunologically active tissues of three horses including the genome reference \u201cTwilight\u201d. In a comparison with the Ensembl horse genome annotation, we found 8,763 potentially novel isoforms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/286/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'Advanced Data Analysis Centre, University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington Campus', u'Deep Seq, University of Nottingham, Queen\u2019s Medical Centre', u'School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham, Sutton Bonington Campus', u'Department of Zoology, University of Oxford']]
[u'Educational options for children with medical needs', ['Michele Capurso'], u'2014-03-13', u'Schooling is known to influence a wide range of economic, social and psychological aspects of people\u2019s life, but children with medical needs are subject to school failure more often than their healthy peers. The aim of this paper is to review different school options available to the paediatrics community for the education of children with medical needs. Hospital school, home tuition and mainstream school re-entry are examined. Critical aspects for each type of solution are discussed. The provision and stability of adequate educational opportunities for children with medical needs represents an important area of collaboration between doctors, educators and parents for the prevention of long-term consequences of illnesses and therapies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/268/', ['Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Philosophy, Social & Human Sciences and Education, University of Perugia']]
[u'Immune stimulation reduces sleep and memory ability in Drosophila melanogaster', ['Eamonn B Mallon', 'Akram Alghamdi', 'Robert T.K. Holdbrook', 'Ezio Rosato'], u'2014-03-12', u'Psychoneuroimmunology studies the increasing number of connections between neurobiology, immunology and behaviour. We establish Drosophila melanogaster as a tractable model in this field by demonstrating the effects of the immune response on two fundamental behaviours: sleep and memory ability. We used the Geneswitch system to upregulate peptidoglycan receptor protein (PGRP) expression, thereby stimulating the immune system in the absence of infection. Geneswitch was activated by feeding the steroid RU486, to the flies. We used an aversive classical conditioning paradigm to quantify memory and measures of activity to infer sleep. Immune stimulated flies exhibited reduced levels of sleep, which could not be explained by a generalised increase in waking activity. The effects on sleep were more pronounced for day compared to night sleep. Immune stimulated flies also showed a reduction in memory abilities. These results establish Drosophila as a model for immune-neural interactions and suggest a possible role for sleep in the interplay between the immune response and memory.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/285/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Entomology', 'Zoology'], [u'Biology, University of Leicester', u'Department of Biology, Taif University', u'Genetics, University of Leicester']]
[u'Heritability estimation of osteoarthritis in the pig-tailed macaque Macaca nemestrina', ['Peter B Chi', 'Andrea Duncan', 'Patricia Ann Kramer', 'Vladimir Minin'], u'2014-03-12', u"We examine heritability estimation of an ordinal trait for osteoarthritis, using a population of pig-tailed macaques from the Washington National Primate Research Center (WaNPRC). This estimation is non-trivial, as the data consist of ordinal measurements on 16 intervertebral spaces throughout each macaque's spinal cord, with many missing values. We examine the resulting heritability estimates from different model choices, and also perform a simulation study to compare the performance of heritability estimation with these different models under specific known parameter values. Under both the real data analysis and the simulation study, we find that heritability estimates from an assumption of normality of the trait differ greatly from those of ordered probit regression, which considers the ordinality of the trait. This finding indicates that some caution should be observed regarding model selection when estimating heritability of an ordinal quantity. Furthermore, w e find evidence that our real data have little information for valid heritability estimation under ordered probit regression. We thus conclude with an exploration of sample size requirements for heritability estimation under this model. For an ordinal trait, an incorrect assumption of normality can lead to severely biased heritability estimation. Sample size requirements for heritability estimation of an ordinal trait under the threshold model depends on the pedigree structure, trait distribution and the degree of relatedness between each phenotyped individual. Our sample of 173 monkeys did not have enough information from which to estimate heritability, but estimable heritability can be obtained with as few as 180 related individuals under certain scenarios examined here.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/284/', ['Genetics', 'Orthopedics', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Statistics, California Polytechnic State University', u'Department of Anthropology, University of Washington', u'Departments of Statistics and Biology, University of Washington']]
[u'Challenges in evaluation of pain and a pre-incisional line block', ['Carolyn McKune', 'Peter Pascoe', 'Philip H Kass', 'B. Duncan X. Lascelles'], u'2014-03-11', u'Background: Our objective was to test the effectiveness of a local anesthetic line block administered before surgery in reducing postoperative pain scores in dogs undergoing ovariohysterectomy (OVHX). This study was a prospective, randomized, blinded, clinical trial involving 59 healthy female dogs. An algometric pressure-measuring device was used to determine nociceptive threshold, and compared to three subjective pain scales. Group L/B received a line block of lidocaine (4 mg/kg) and bupivacaine (1 mg/kg) subcutaneously in the area of the proposed incision and saline subcutaneously as premedication; group L/BM (positive control) received a similar block and morphine (0.5 mg/kg) subcutaneously for premedication; and group SS (negative control) received a saline line block and saline premedication. Criteria for rescue analgesia were defined before the study. Dogs were assessed prior to surgery, at extubation (time 0) and at 2, 4, 6, 8 and 24 hours post-recovery. The data were analyzed with one-way ANOVA, and a repeated measures ANOVA with one grouping factor and one repeat factor (time). P < 0.05 was considered statistically significant. Results: Pain was so subtle that there were no significant differences between treatment groups with any assessment method, and no significant difference between positive and negative controls. Conclusions: Pain in non-verbal responders is subtle, even in animals with a known painful stimulus. Pre-emptive, intraoperative and post-operative analgesia is necessary regardless of pain score within the first 24 hours. None of the pain scales evaluated were sensitive enough to determine pain in all animals in this study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/282/', ['Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Mythos Veterinary LLC', u'Department of Surgical and Radiological Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Population Health and Reproduction, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Clinical Sciences & Center for Comparative Medicine and Translational Research, North Carolina State University']]
[u'Occurrence of twin embryos in the eastern bluebird', ['Robyn L. Bailey', 'Gerald E. Clark'], u'2014-03-11', u'We report the first record of presumed twinning in eastern bluebird (Sialia sialis) and provide a review of previously reported twinning events in wild birds. A nest containing twin eastern bluebird nestlings was monitored in 2013 in central Pennsylvania and reported to the Cornell Lab of Ornithology\u2019s NestWatch program, a national program where volunteers submit data on wild nesting birds. A presumed double-yolked egg of a free-living eastern bluebird pair hatched successfully, and twin nestlings lived for 11 days in a nest box shared by three siblings. Due to the rarity of twinning in wild birds, engaging the public to monitor large numbers of nests is the most likely approach to documenting twinning in wild populations, and citizen science provides the infrastructure for individuals to share observations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/186/', ['Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Citizen Science, Cornell Lab of Ornithology', u'Retired']]
[u'Culture of equine fibroblast-like synoviocytes on synthetic tissue scaffolds towards meniscal tissue engineering: a preliminary cell-seeding study', ['Jennifer J Warnock', 'Derek B Fox', 'Aaron M Stoker', 'Mark Beatty', 'Mary K Cockrell', 'John C Janicek', 'James L Cook'], u'2014-03-11', u'Introduction: Tissue Engineering is a new methodology for addressing meniscal injury or loss. Synovium may be an ideal source of cells for in vitro meniscal fibrocartilage formation, however, favorable in vitro culture conditions for synovium must be established in order to achieve this goal. The objective of this study was to determine cellularity, cell distribution, and extracellular matrix (ECM) formation of equine fibroblast-like synoviocytes (FLS) cultured on synthetic scaffolds, for potential application in synovium-based meniscal tissue engineering. Scaffolds included open-cell poly-L-lactic acid (OPLA) sponges and polyglycolic acid (PGA) scaffolds cultured in static and dynamic culture conditions, and PGA scaffolds coated in poly-L-lactic (PLLA) in dynamic culture conditions. Materials and Methods: Equine FLS were seeded on OPLA and PGA scaffolds, and cultured in a static environment or in a rotating bioreactor for 12 days. Equine FLS were also seeded on PGA scaffolds coated in 2% or 4% PLLA and cultured in a rotating bioreactor for 14 and 21 days. Three scaffolds from each group were fixed, sectioned and stained with Masson\u2019s Trichrome, Safranin-O, and Hematoxylin and Eosin, and cell numbers and distribution were analyzed using computer image analysis. Three PGA and OPLA scaffolds from each culture condition were also analyzed for extracellular matrix (ECM) production via di-methylmethylene blue (sulfated glycosaminoglycan) assay and hydroxyproline (collagen) assay. PLLA coated PGA scaffolds were analyzed using double stranded DNA quantification as a reflection of cellularity and confocal laser microscopy in a fluorescent cell viability assay. Results: The highest cellularity occurred in PGA constructs cultured in a rotating bioreactor, which also had a mean sulfated glycosaminoglycan content of 22.3\u03bcg per scaffold. PGA constructs cultured in static conditions had the lowest cellularity. Cells had difficulty adhering to OPLA and the PLLA coating of PGA scaffolds; cellularity was inversely proportional to the concentration of PLLA used. PLLA coating did not prevent dissolution of the PGA scaffolds. All cell scaffold types and culture conditions produced non-uniform cellular distribution. Discussion/ Conclusion: FLS-seeding of PGA scaffolds cultured in a rotating bioreactor resulted in the most optimal cell and matrix characteristics seen in this study. Cells grew only in the pores of the OPLA sponge, and could not adhere to the PLLA coating of PGA scaffold, due to the hydrophobic property of PLA. While PGA culture in a bioreactor produced measureable GAG, no culture technique produced visible collagen. For this reason, and due to the dissolution of PGA scaffolds, the culture conditions and scaffolds described here are not recommended for inducing fibrochondrogenesis in equine FLS for meniscal tissue engineering.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/283/', ['Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Department of Clinical Sciences, College of Veterinary Medicine, Oregon State University', u'Comparative Orthopaedic Laboratory, College of Veterinary Medicine, University of Missouri', u'VA Nebraska-Western Iowa Health Care System, University of Nebraska Medical Center College of Dentistry', u'Brazos Valley Equine Hospital', u'Comparative Orthopaedic Laboratory, University of Missouri']]
[u'Increasing the precision of orthology-based complex prediction through network alignment', ['Roland Pache', 'Patrick Aloy'], u'2014-03-10', u'Macromolecular assemblies play an important role in almost all cellular processes. However, despite several large-scale studies, our current knowledge about protein complexes is still quite limited, thus advocating the use of in silico predictions to gather information on complex composition in model organisms. Since protein-protein interactions present certain constraints on the functional divergence of macromolecular assemblies during evolution, it is possible to predict complexes based on orthology data. Here, we show that incorporating interaction information through network alignment significantly increases the precision of orthology-based complex prediction. Moreover, we performed a large-scale in silico screen for protein complexes in human, yeast and fly, through the alignment of hundreds of known complexes to whole organism interactomes. Systematic comparison of the resulting network alignments to all complexes currently known in those species revealed many conserved complexes, as well as several novel complex components. In addition to validating our predictions using orthogonal data, we were able to assign specific functional roles to the predicted complexes. In several cases, the incorporation of interaction data through network alignment allowed to distinguish real complex components from other orthologous proteins. Our analyses indicate that current knowledge of yeast protein complexes exceeds that in other organisms and that predicting complexes in fly based on human and yeast data is complementary rather than redundant. Lastly, assessing the conservation of protein complexes of the human pathogen Mycoplasma pneumoniae, we discovered that its complexes repertoire is different from that of eukaryotes, suggesting new points of therapeutic intervention, whereas targeting the pathogen\u2019s Restriction enzyme complex might lead to adverse effects due to its similarity to ATP-dependent metalloproteases in the human host.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/280/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Molecular Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Joint IRB-BSC Program in Computational Biology, Institute for Research in Biomedicine (IRB Barcelona)', u'Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, University of California San Francisco (UCSF)', u'Instituci\xf3 Catalana de Recerca i Estudis Avan\xe7ats (ICREA)']]
[u'Do young domestic pigs (Sus scrofa domestica) rely on object-specific cues in a simultaneous discrimination task?', ['Christian Nawroth', 'Eberhard von Borell'], u'2014-03-10', u'Finding and relocating food sources is not only crucial for individuals in changing natural environments - it is also of importance in domestic animals under husbandry conditions, for instance to reduce stress when transferring animals into new housing conditions. This study makes a first attempt by investigating young pigs\xb4 use of conflicting spatial and feature cues in a simultaneous discrimination task. In a training phase, subjects (n = 9) first learned to approach a food container with distinct spatial and feature cues. In a subsequent test phase, spatial and feature cues were brought into conflict. Results show that young pigs significantly preferred to approach the spatial position rather than the feature cue of a food container \u2013 at least for the visual domain - while inter-individual differences in choice behaviour suggest that animals recognized the changed context. However, the actual test setup did not exclude alternatives to the use of spatial cues, e.g. instrumental learning. The results may contribute to a better understanding of learning mechanisms in domestic pigs and could be used to improve husbandry designs, reduce stress levels after transfer and may prove to be helpful in designing further test paradigms investigating discriminative learning abilities in the domestic pig.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/281/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Animal Behavior'], [u'Department of Animal Husbandry & Ecology, Martin-Luther-University Halle-Wittenberg']]
[u'Automated electronic medical record sepsis detection in the Emergency Department', ['Su Nguyen', 'Edwin Mwakalindile', 'James S Booth', 'Vicki Hogan', 'Jordan Morgan', 'Charles T Prickett', 'John P Donnelly', 'Henry E Wang'], u'2014-03-08', u'Background: While often first treated in the Emergency Department (ED), identification of sepsis is difficult. Electronic medical record (EMR) clinical decision tools offer a novel strategy for identifying patients with sepsis. The objective of this study was to test the accuracy of an EMR-based, automated sepsis identification system. Methods : We tested an EMR-based sepsis identification tool at a major academic, urban ED with 64,000 annual visits. The EMR system collected vital sign and laboratory test information on all ED patients, triggering a \u201csepsis alert\u201d for those with \u22652 SIRS (systemic inflammatory response syndrome) criteria (fever, tachycardia, tachypnea, leukocytosis) plus \u22651 major organ dysfunction (SBP\u226490 mm Hg, lactic acid \u22652.0 mg/dL). We confirmed the presence of sepsis through manual review of physician, nursing, and laboratory records. We also reviewed a random selection of non-sepsis alert records. We evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of the sepsis identification tool. Results : From January 1 through March 31, 2012, we analyzed 795 automated sepsis alerts and 300 non-alerts. The true prevalence of sepsis was 293/795 (37%) among alerts and 0/300 (0%) among non-alerts. The positive predictive value was 36.9% (41.7-49.6). Respiratory infections (36.5%) and urinary tract infection (35.5%) were the most common infections among the 293 patients with true sepsis (true positives). Among false-positive sepsis alerts, the most common medical conditions were gastrointestinal (22.9%), traumatic (22.3%), and cardiovascular (17.5%). Conclusion : This ED EMR-based automated sepsis identification system was able to detect sepsis patients. Automated EMR-based detection may provide a viable strategy for identifying sepsis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/279/', ['Emergency and Critical Care'], [u'University of Alabama School of Medicine', u'Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Alabama School of Medicine', u'Department of Nursing Informatics, University of Alabama at Birmingham']]
[u'Extreme undisclosed analytical flexibility in HRV with automated p\u2010mining software', ['James A Heathers', 'Alex O Holcombe'], u'2014-03-07', u'Heart rate variability (HRV) is the study of the beat\u2010to\u2010beat variability in the heart rate, which is a consequence of the immediate state of the autonomic nervous system. While it is a popular psychobiological technique, flexibility within analytical methods allows any finding to be presented as significant.Here we present a potential demonstration of this, by automating analytical decisions to manipulate findings into significance by automating an extreme number of different yet plausible paths for analysis (PMinerEKG).It should be possible to demonstrate \u2018extremely significant\u2019 \u2010 and entirely spurious \u2010 differences between even extremely similar datasets simply by performing enough analyses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/277/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Sydney']]
[u'Data-mining of potential antitubercular activities from molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines', ['Salma Jamal', 'Vinod Scaria'], u'2014-03-07', u'Background Traditional Chinese medicine encompasses a well established alternate system of medicine based on a broad range of herbal formulations and is practiced extensively in the region for the treatment of a wide variety of diseases. In recent years, several reports describe in depth studies of the molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines on the biological activities including anti-bacterial activities. The availability of a well-curated dataset of molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines and accurate in-silico cheminformatics models for data mining for antitubercular agents and computational filters to prioritize molecules has prompted us to search for potential hits from these datasets.\nResults  We used a consensus approach to predict molecules with potential antitubercular activities from a large dataset of molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines available in the public domain. We further prioritized 160 molecules based on five computational filters (SMARTSfilter) so as to avoid potentially undesirable molecules. We further examined the molecules for permeability across Mycobacterial cell wall and for potential activities against non-replicating and drug tolerant Mycobacteria. Additional in-depth literature surveys for the reported antitubercular activities of the molecular ingredients and their sources were considered for drawing support to prioritization.\nConclusions Our analysis suggests that datasets of molecular ingredients of Traditional Chinese Medicines offer a new opportunity to mine for potential biological activities. In this report, we suggest a proof-of-concept methodology to prioritize molecules for further experimental assays using a variety of computational tools. We also additionally suggest that a subset of prioritized molecules could be used for evaluation for tuberculosis due to their additional effect against non-replicating tuberculosis as well as the additional hepato-protection offered by the source of these ingredients.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/276/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Drugs and Devices', 'Pharmacology', 'Computational Science'], [u'GN Ramachandran Knowledge Center for Genome Informatics, CSIR Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology']]
[u'Mutation analysis of the SLC26A4, FOXI1 and KCNJ10 genes in individuals with congenital hearing loss', ['Lynn M Pique', 'Marie-Luise Brennan', 'Colin J Davidson', 'Frederick Schaefer', 'John Greinwald Jr.', 'Iris Schrijver'], u'2014-03-07', u'Pendred syndrome (PDS) and DFNB4 comprise a phenotypic spectrum of sensorineural hearing loss disorders that typically result from biallelic mutations of the SLC26A4 gene. Although PDS and DFNB4 are recessively inherited, sequencing of the coding regions and splice sites of SLC26A4 in individuals suspected to be affected with these conditions often fails to identify two mutations. We investigated the potential contribution of large SLC26A4 deletions and duplications to sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) by screening 107 probands with one known SLC26A4 mutation by Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA). A heterozygous deletion, spanning exons 4-6, was detected in only one individual, accounting for approximately 1% of the missing mutations in our cohort. This low frequency is consistent with previously published MLPA results. We also examined the potential involvement of digenic inheritance in PDS/DFNB4 by sequencing the coding regions of FOXI1 and KCNJ10. Of the 29 probands who were sequenced, three carried nonsynonymous variants including one novel sequence change in FOXI1 and two polymorphisms in KCNJ10. We performed a review of prior studies and, in conjunction with our current data, conclude that the frequency of FOXI1 (1.4%) and KCNJ10 (3.6%) variants in PDS/DFNB4 individuals is low. Our results, in combination with previously published reports, indicate that large SLC26A4 deletions and duplications as well as mutations of FOXI1 and KCNJ10 play limited roles in the pathogenesis of SNHL and suggest that other genetic factors likely contribute to the phenotype.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/275/', ['Genetics', 'Medical Genetics', 'Otorhinolaryngology', 'Pathology', 'Pediatrics'], [u'Department of Pathology, Stanford University Medical Center', u'Department of Pediatrics, Stanford University Medical Center', u'Life Technologies', u'Molecular Genetics, Center for Genetic Testing at Saint Francis Hospital', u'Divisions of Human Genetics and Otolaryngology, Cincinnati Children\u2019s Hospital Medical Center']]
[u'Eleutherodactylus frogs show frequency but no temporal partitioning: implications for the acoustic niche hypothesis', ['Luis J Villanueva-Rivera'], u'2014-03-05', u'Individuals in acoustic communities compete for the use of the sound resource for communication, a problem that can be studied as niche competition. The acoustic niche hypothesis presents a way to study the partitioning of the resource, but the studies have to take into account the three dimensions of this niche: time, acoustic frequency, and space. I used an Automated Digital Recording System to determine the partitioning of time and acoustic frequency of eight frogs of the genus Eleutherodactylus from Puerto Rico. The calling activity was measured using a calling index. The community exhibited no temporal partitioning since most species called at the same time, between sunset and midnight. The species partitioned the acoustic frequency of their signals, which, in addition to the microhabitat partitioning, can provide some insight into how these species deal with the problem. This data also suggest that monitoring projects with this group should take place only before midnight to avoid false negatives.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/274/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology'], [u'Forestry and Natural Resources, Purdue University']]
[u'A call for virtual experiments: accelerating the scientific process', ['Jonathan Cooper', 'Jon Olav Vik', 'Dagmar Waltemath'], u'2014-03-05', u'Experimentation is fundamental to the scientific method, whether for exploration, description or explanation. In the exploration of a novel system, children and researchers alike will mess about with things just to see what happens. More formalized experimental protocols ensure reproducible results and form a basis for comparing systems in terms of their response to a specific stimulus. Finally, experiments can be carefully designed to distinguish between competing causal hypotheses based on their different testable predictions about the outcome of the experimental manipulation. One would therefore expect experiments to be central in computational biology too.\nIndeed, a mathematical model embodies a thought experiment, a causal hypothesis, and its falsifiable predictions. It is easy to ask "what if" we were to change a parameter, an initial state, or the model structure. Papers in computational biology focus on describing and analyzing the effects of such changes, and on confronting models with experimental data. This confrontation often generates new hypotheses, and many if not most new models arise by modification of existing ones. However, most virtual experiments are not built to be reproducible, and thus die with the paper they are published in. This inhibits the critical scrutiny of models, as models are seldom subjected to the same simulation experiments as their predecessors, or revisited later in the light of new data. Perhaps worse, the status quo fails to take full advantage of experiments as a common language between modellers and experimentalists. Despite the growing availability of data and model repositories, there has been only a slow uptake of emerging tools and standards for documenting and sharing the protocols for simulation experiments and their results.\nWe argue that promoting the reuse of virtual experiments would vastly improve the usefulness and relevance of computational models, including in biomedical endeavours such as the Virtual Physiological Human and the Human Brain Project. We review the benefits of reusable virtual experiments: in specifying, assaying, and comparing the behavioural repertoires of models; as prerequisites for reproducible research; to guide model reuse and composition; and for quality assurance in the application of computational biology models. Next, we discuss potential approaches for implementing virtual experiments, arguing that models and experimental protocols should be represented separately, but annotated so as to facilitate the linking of models to experiments and data. We follow with some consideration of open questions and challenges that remain before the use of virtual experiments can become widespread. Lastly, we outline a vision for how the rigorous, streamlined confrontation between experimental datasets and candidate models would enable a "continuous integration" of biological knowledge, akin to the strategy used in software development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/273/', ['Computational Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Cardiology', 'Translational Medicine', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Computer Science, University of Oxford', u'Department of Animal and Aquacultural Sciences, Norwegian University of Life Sciences', u'Department of Systems Biology and Bioinformatics, University of Rostock']]
[u'Phylogeny of water birds inferred from mitochondrial DNA sequences of nine protein coding genes', ['Tsendsesmee Lkhagvajav Treutlein', 'Javier Gonzalez', 'Michael Wink'], u'2014-03-05', u'Background: The phylogeny of birds which are adapted to aquatic environments is controversial because of convergent evolution. Methods: To understand water bird evolution in more detail, we sequenced the majority of mitochondrial protein coding genes (6699 nucleotides in length) of 14 water birds, and reconstructed their phylogeny in the context of other taxa across the whole class of birds for which complete mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences were available. Results: The water bird clade, as defined by Hackett et al. (2008) based on nuclear DNA (ncDNA) sequences, was also found in our study by Bayesian Inference (BI) and Maximum Likelihood (ML) analyses. In both reconstruction methods, genera belonging to the same family generally clustered together with moderate to high statistical support. Above the family level, we identified three monophyletic groups: one clade consisting of Procellariidae, Hydrobatidae and Diomedeidae, and a second clade consisting of Sulidae, Anhingidae and Phalacrocoracidae, and a third clade consisting of Ardeidae and Threskiornithidae. Discussion: Based on our mtDNA sequence data, we recovered a robust direct sister relationship between Ardeidae and Threskiornithidae for the first time for mtDNA. Our comprehensive phylogenetic reconstructions contribute to the knowledge of higher level relationships within the water birds and provide evolutionary hypotheses for further studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/272/', ['Biodiversity', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University']]
[u'Evaluation of granular anaerobic ammonium oxidation process for the disposal of pre-treated swine manure', ['Shou-Qing Ni', 'Ning Yang'], u'2014-03-05', u'With rising environmental concerns on potable watersafety and eutrophication, increased media attention and tighter environmental regulations, managing animal wastes in an environmentally responsible and economically feasible way can be a challenge. In this study, the possibility of using granular anammox process for ammonia removal from swine waste treatment water was investigated. A rapid decrease of NO2 --N and NH4 +-N was observed during incubation with wastewater from an activated sludge deodorization reactor and anaerobic digestion-partial oxidation treatment process treating swine manure and its corresponding control artificial wastewaters. Ammonium removal dropped from 98.0 \xb1 0.6% to 66.9 \xb1 2.7% and nearly absent when the organic load in the feeding increased from 232 mg COD/L to 1160 mg COD/L and 2320 mg COD/L. The presence of organic carbon had limited effect on nitrite and total nitrogen removal. At a COD to N ratio of 0.9, COD inhibitory organic load threshold concentration was 727 mg COD/L. Mass balance indicated that denitrifiers played an important role in nitrite, nitrate and organic carbon removal. These results demonstrated that anammox system had the potential to effectively treat swine manure that can achieve high nitrogen standards at reduced costs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/271/', ['Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Shandong University']]
[u'Formation of intracellular glutamine synthetase bodies depends strongly upon cellular age and glucose availability', ["Jeremy O'Connell", 'Mark Tsechansky', 'Marguerite West-Driga', 'Edward M Marcotte'], u'2014-03-04', u'The enzyme glutamine synthetase serves key roles in central nitrogen metabolism, catalyzing the biosynthesis of glutamine, as well as regulating ammonia assimilation and integrating metabolic signals to balance nitrogen use. The budding yeast enzyme was recently found to form intracellular bodies (GS bodies) composed of glutamine synthetase and Hsp90 chaperones following various types of nutrient depletion or chemical stress. In order to better quantify and characterize the in vivo formation of GS bodies, we developed an assay for their formation in single yeast cells using imaging flow cytometry, which enables the quantitative measurement of rates of GS body formation and their population penetrance. Either reduction of supplied glucose, or addition of the competitive inhibitor of glycolysis, 2-deoxyglucose, markedly enhanced the formation of GS bodies. The occurrence of GS bodies increased with increasing cell size, a proxy for cell age, while treatment with rapamycin antagonized their formation. Direct measurement of GS body formation as a function of replicative age showed that mother cells exhibited a significantly higher incidence of GS bodies than daughter cells, and the frequency of GS body formation increased with increasing replicative cell age. Thus, we find that yeast glutamine synthetase bodies form in a manner strongly dependent on available glucose and increase markedly with cell age.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/270/', ['Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Center for Systems and Synthetic Biology, University of Texas at Austin', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Austin at Texas', u'Department of Chemistry, Cambridge University', u'Institute for Cellular and Molecular Biology, University of Austin at Texas', u'Department of Molecular Biosciences, University of Austin at Texas']]
[u'The spectacular human nose: an amplifier of individual quality?', ['Ase Rognmo Mikalsen', 'Ivar Folstad', 'Nigel G Yoccoz', 'Bruno Laeng'], u'2014-03-04', u'Background: Amplifiers are signals that improve the perception of underlying differences in quality. They are cost free and advantageous to high quality individuals, but disadvantageous to low quality individuals, as poor quality is easier perceived because of the amplifier. For an amplifier to evolve, the average fitness benefit to the high quality individuals should be higher than the average cost for the low quality individuals. The human nose is, compared to the nose of most other primates, extraordinary large, fragile and easily broken \u2013 especially in male-male interactions. May it have evolved as an amplifier, allowing easy assessment of individual quality and influencing the perception of attractiveness?\nMethods: We tested whether nose tip centrality had a particular influence on attractiveness by manipulating the position of the nose tip or, as a control, the mouth in facial pictures and had the pictures rated for attractiveness.\nResults: Our results show that facial attractiveness is not influenced by mouth manipulations. Yet, facial attractiveness increased when the nose tip was artificially centered according to other facial features. Conversely, facial attractiveness decreased when the nose tip was displaced away from its central position.\nDiscussion: Our results suggest that the centering of the nose tip is important for evaluation of attractiveness, maybe because it has a particularly strong effect on our perception of facial symmetry or averageness. However, whether such centering is related to individual quality remains unclear.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/269/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Arctic and Marine Biology, University of Troms\xf8', u'Department of Psychology, University of Oslo']]
[u'Multi-gene analysis of the symbiotic and free-living dinoflagellate genus Symbiodinium', ['Xavier Pochon', 'Hollie M Putnam', 'Ruth D Gates'], u'2014-03-04', u'Symbiodinium, a large group of dinoflagellates, live in symbiosis with marine protists, invertebrate metazoans, and free-living in the environment. Symbiodinium are functionally variable and play critical energetic roles in symbiosis. Our knowledge of Symbiodinium has been historically constrained by the limited number of molecular markers available to study evolution in the genus. Here we compare six functional genes, representing three cellular compartments, in the nine known Symbiodinium lineages. Despite striking similarities among the single gene phylogenies from distinct organelles, none were evolutionarily identical. A fully concatenated reconstruction, however, yielded a well-resolved topology identical to the current benchmark nr28S gene. Evolutionary rates differed among cellular compartments and clades, a pattern largely driven by higher rates of evolution in the chloroplast genes of Symbiodinium clades D2 and I. The rapid rates of evolution observed amongst these relatively uncommon Symbiodinium lineages in the functionally critical chloroplast may translate into potential innovation for the symbiosis. The multi-gene analysis highlights the potential power of assessing genome-wide evolutionary patterns using recent advances in sequencing technology and emphasizes the importance of integrating ecological data with more comprehensive sampling of free-living and symbiotic Symbiodinium in assessing the evolutionary adaptation of this enigmatic dinoflagellate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/267/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Marine Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Environmental Technologies, The Cawthron Institute', u'Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii', u'Hawaii Institute of Marine Biology, University of Hawaii at Manoa']]
[u'Extreme inequalities of citation counts in environmental sciences', ['Deepthi Chimalakonda', 'Alex R Cook', 'L Roman Carrasco'], u'2014-03-04', u'Well-established scientists are expected to be more likely to have their work recognised than early-career individuals and thus receive more citations. Estimating the degree of inequality in citation counts in environmental sciences can help identify the dynamics behind citation inequalities. Using the scientific profiles of researchers in the Google Scholar database, we estimated the inequality in the distribution of citations in the disciplines of evolutionary biology, conservation biology and ecology. The data were modelled using short-tailed (exponential) and long-tailed power-law (Pareto) distributions. The inequality in performance in each distribution was assessed using Gini coefficients. Citations counts per researcher presented Gini coefficients of 0.83\u20130.84, indicating extreme inequality. The results suggest that the reinforcement in citation counts due to seniority and previous success might be very strong. To produce meaningful comparisons of actual research impact using citation counts, factors such as lab size, collaborations or role in articles should ideally be controlled for.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/265/', ['Ethical Issues', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, National University of Singapore', u'Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore and National University Health System', u'Yale-NUS College, National University of Singapore']]
[u'A cross-ocean comparison of responses to settlement cues in reef-building corals', ['Sarah W Davies', 'Eli Meyer', 'Sarah M Guermond', 'Mikhail V Matz'], u'2014-03-03', u'Caribbean coral reefs have deteriorated substantially over the past 30 years, which is broadly attributable to the effects of global climate change. In the same time, Indo-Pacific reefs maintain higher coral cover and typically recover rapidly after disturbances. This difference in reef resilience is largely due to much higher coral recruitment rates in the Pacific. We hypothesized that the lack of Caribbean coral recruitment might be explained by diminishing quality of settlement cues and/or impaired sensitivity of Caribbean coral larvae to those cues, relative to the Pacific. To evaluate this hypothesis, we assembled a collection of bulk samples of reef encrusting communities, mostly consisting of crustose coralline algae (CCA), from various reefs around the world and tested them as settlement cues for several coral species originating from different ocean provinces. Cue samples were meta-barcoded to evaluate their taxonomic diversity. We observed no systematic differences either in cue potency or in strength of larval responses depending on the ocean province, and no preference of coral larvae towards cues from the same ocean. Instead, we detected significant differences in cue preferences among coral species, even for corals originating from the same reef. We conclude that the region-wide disruption of the settlement process is unlikely to be the major cause of Caribbean reef loss. However, due to their high sensitivity to the effects of climate change, shifts in the composition of CCA-associated communities, combined with pronounced differences in cue preferences among coral species, could substantially influence future coral community structure.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/264/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas at Austin', u'Department of Integrative Biology, Oregon State University', u'Department of Zoology, Oregon State University']]
[u'Extraordinary incidence of cervical ribs indicates vulnerable condition in Late Pleistocene mammoths', ['Jelle W.F. Reumer', 'Clara M.A. ten Broek', 'Frietson Galis'], u'2014-03-03', u'The number of cervical vertebrae in mammals is highly conserved at seven. We have shown that changes of this number are selected against due to a coupling with major congenital abnormalities (pleiotropic effects, (Galis 1999, Galis et al. 2006, Varela-Lasheras et al. 2011, ten Broek et al. 2012)). Here we show that the incidence of abnormal cervical vertebral numbers in Late Pleistocene mammoths from the North Sea is high (33.3%) and approximately 10 times higher than that of extant elephants (3.6%). Abnormal numbers were due to the presence of large cervical ribs on the seventh vertebra, which we deduced from the presence of rib articulation facets on sixth (posterior side) and seventh (anterior side) cervical vertebrae. The incidence of abnormal cervical vertebral numbers in mammoths appears to be much higher than in other mammalian species, apart from exceptional sloths, manatees and dugongs (Varela-Lasheras, Bakker et al. 2011) and indicates a vulnerable condition. We argue that the increased incidence of cervical ribs in mammoths is probably caused by inbreeding and adverse conditions that impact early pregnancies in declining populations close to extinction in the Late Pleistocene.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/263/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Natural History Museum', u'Faculty of Geosciences, Utrecht University', u'University of Antwerp, Evolutionary Ecology Group', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Terrestrial Zoology', u'Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Geology/Terrestial Zoology']]
[u'Simple cephalo-caudal patterns embedded in complex human interpersonal behavior', ['Valli Kiran Manduva'], u'2014-03-03', u'A novel model is presented to explain human social behavior. In recent years, a cephalo-caudal directionality to behavior has been reported in a few mammals including rodents, cattle and cats. This model shows how complex human behavior also follows this rule of cephalo-caudal directionality. The positions of the lower motor neurons mediating the specific acts in the cephalo-caudal neural axis are considered to be an important correlate of the act. The model consists of a primary layer, consisting of the orienting modules \u2013 eyes, head and body and a secondary layer consisting of the six transmitting channels \u2013 the eyes, facial expression, speech, upper limbs, lower limbs and the external genitalia. The model demonstrates through multiple examples that complex human behavior also follows a cephalo caudal directionality, both in the orienting modules as well as in the transmitting channels. In this paradigm, conciliatory and agonistic communications are examined as prototypes for analysis of more complex dominant and submissive behavior as well as psychiatric conditions such as mania and depression. The model is sensitive to the social context of behavior which is without precedent in the literature. Further, the concept of \u2018mobility gradient\u2019 is applied to human behavior to understand motor behavior in depression and mania and catatonic behavior. Finally, certain issues pertinent to difficulties of behavioral description and model building in human behavior are discussed. The model emphasizes the role of objective behavioral description paradigms that borrow from concepts in comparative psychology and animal behavior.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/127/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Psychiatry Department, St Johns Hospital']]
[u'Re-examining the relationship between invasive lionfish and native grouper in the Caribbean', ['Abel Valdivia', 'John F Bruno', 'Courtney Cox', 'Serena Hackerott', 'Stephanie Green'], u'2014-03-02', u'Biotic resistance is the idea that native species negatively affect the invasion success of introduced species, but whether this can occur at large spatial scales is poorly understood. Here we re-evaluated the hypothesis that native large-bodied grouper and other predators are controlling the abundance of exotic lionfish (Pterois volitans/miles) on Caribbean coral reefs. We assessed the relationship between the biomass of lionfish and native predators at 71 reefs in three biogeographic regions while taking into consideration several cofactors that may affect fish abundance, including among others, proxies for fishing pressure and habitat structural complexity. Our results indicate that the abundance of lionfish, large-bodied grouper and other predators were not negatively related. Lionfish abundance was instead controlled by several physical site characteristics, and possibly by culling. Taken together, our results suggest that managers cannot rely on current native grouper populations to control the lionfish invasion.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/262/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Marine Science, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Zoology, Oregon State University']]
[u'Color vision in Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder: A pilot visual evoked potential study', ['Soyeon Kim', 'Tobias Banaschewski', 'Rosemary Tannock'], u'2014-03-01', u'Background: Individuals with Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) are reported to manifest visual problems (including ophthalmological and color perception problems, particularly for blue-yellow stimuli), but findings are inconsistent. Accordingly, this study investigated visual function and color perception in adolescents with ADHD using VEP.\nMethod: Participants were 31 adolescents (aged 13-18); 16 with a confirmed diagnosis of ADHD, and 15 healthy peers, matched for age, gender, and IQ. All underwent ophthalmological exam, color vision testing (Mollon-Reffin Minimalist Colour Vision Test), as well as electrophysiological testing (color Visual Evoked Potentials; cVEP) which measured the latency and amplitude of the neural P1 response to chromatic stimuli (Blue-Yellow, Red-Green).\nResult: No group differences were found in clinical measure of color perception or opthalmological exam. However, significantly larger P1 amplitude was found for blue and yellow stimuli, but not red/green stimuli, in the ADHD group compared to controls.\nDiscussion: Larger amplitude in the P1 component for blue-yellow in ADHD group compared to control group may account for no difference in colour perception task. Perhaps activating more resources in early sensory processing (P1) compensated for any underlying problems including compromised retinal input of s-cones due to hypo-dopaminergic tone.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/261/', ['Neuroscience', 'Ophthalmology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Applied Psychology & Human Development, University of Toronto', u'Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Central Institute of Mental Health']]
[u'Strain- and plasmid-level deconvolution of a synthetic metagenome by sequencing proximity ligation products', ['Christopher W. Beitel', 'Lutz Froenicke', 'Jenna M. Lang', 'Ian F. Korf', 'Richard W. Michelmore', 'Jonathan A. Eisen', 'Aaron E. Darling'], u'2014-02-28', u'Metagenomics is a valuable tool for the study of microbial communities but has been limited by the difficulty of \u201cbinning\u201d the resulting sequences into groups corresponding to the individual species and strains that constitute the community. Moreover, there are presently no methods to track the flow of mobile DNA elements such as plasmids through communities or to determine which of these are co-localized within the same cell. We address these limitations by applying Hi-C, a technology originally designed for the study of three-dimensional genome structure in eukaryotes, to measure the cellular co-localization of DNA sequences. We leveraged Hi-C data generated from a synthetic metagenome sample to accurately cluster metagenome assembly contigs into groups that contain nearly complete genomes of each species. The Hi-C data also reliably associated plasmids with the chromosomes of their host and with each other. We further demonstrated that Hi-C data provides a long-range signal of strain-specific genotypes, indicating such data may be useful for high-resolution genotyping of microbial populations. Our work demonstrates that Hi-C sequencing data provide valuable information for metagenome analyses that are not currently obtainable by other methods. This metagenomic Hi-C method could facilitate future studies of the fine-scale population structure of microbes, as well as studies of how antibiotic resistance plasmids (or other genetic elements) mobilize in microbial communities. The method is not limited to microbiology; the genetic architecture of other heterogeneous populations of cells could also be studied with this technique.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/260/', ['Bioengineering', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'UC Davis Genome Center, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Plant Sciences, University of California', u'Department of Medical Microbiology and Immunology, University of California, Davis', u'Department of Evolution and Ecology, University of California, Davis', u'ithree institute, University of Technology Sydney']]
[u'Spatial and temporal variability of benthic primary production in upwelling-influenced Colombian Caribbean coral reefs', ['Corvin Eidens', 'Elisa Bayraktarov', 'Valeria Pizarro', 'Thomas Wilke', 'Christian Wild'], u'2014-02-26', u'In Tayrona National Natural Park (Colombian Caribbean), abiotic factors such as light intensity, water temperature, and nutrient availability are subjected to high temporal variability due to seasonal coastal upwelling. These factors are major drivers controlling coral reef primary production. This offers the opportunity to assess the effects of abiotic factors on key coral reef ecosystem services in terms of productivity. We therefore quantified primary net (Pn) and gross production (Pg) of the dominant local primary producers (scleractinian corals, macroalgae, algal turfs, crustose coralline algae, and microphytobenthos) at a water current/wave-exposed (EXP) and -sheltered (SHE) site in an exemplary bay of Tayrona National Natural Park. A series of short-term incubations was conducted to quantify O2 fluxes of the different primary producers before and at the end of the upwelling event 2011/2012. At the level of the organism, scleractinian corals showed highest Pn and Pg rates before upwelling (16 and 19 mmol O2 m-2 specimen area h-1), and corals and algal turfs dominated the primary production at the end of upwelling (12 and 19 mmol O2 m-2 specimen area h-1, respectively). At the ecosystem level, corals contributed most to total Pn (EXP: 81 %; SHE: 65 %) and Pg (EXP: 78 %; SHE: 55 %) before the upwelling, while at the end of the upwelling, corals contributed most to Pn and Pg only at EXP (73 and 75 %) and macroalgae at SHE (52 and 46 %, respectively). Despite the significant spatial and temporal differences in individual productivity of investigated groups and their different contribution to reef productivity, no spatial or temporal differences in daily ecosystem Pn and Pg were detected (194 \u2013 218 and 311 \u2013 409 mmol O2 m-2 seafloor area d-1). Our findings therefore indicate that local autotrophic benthic reef communities are well adapted to pronounced fluctuations of environmental key parameters. This might lead to a higher resilience against climate change consequences and anthropogenic disturbances.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/258/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Animal Ecology & Systematics, Justus Liebig University Giessen', u'Coral Reef Ecology Group (CORE), Leibniz Center for Tropical Marine Ecology', u'Center of Excellence in Marine Sciences (CEMarin)', u'Faculty of Biology and Chemistry, University of Bremen']]
[u'A cell culture model for alveolar epithelial transport', ['Hui Ren', 'Vinod Suresh'], u'2014-02-24', u'Background: The thickness and composition of the surface liquid lining the human lungs are maintained by a balance between epithelial secretion and absorption of ions and water. An understanding of epithelial transport pathways and the factors that regulate them will provide insight into the development of conditions such as lung edema and guide the development of treatment modalities. Here we report on the development and characterisation of a cell culture model of the alveolar epithelium that will be useful for investigating the components of epithelial transport pathways and interpreting molecular mechanisms involved in transport related diseases. Methods: An in vitro cell culture model was developed using human alveolar epithelial cell lines NCI-H441 and A549 cultured with the apical surface exposed to air (air-medium) or covered by nutrient medium (medium-medium). Cell monolayer was presented by visualizing cell morphology under microscope. Transepithelial electrical resistance, potential difference and fluorescence permeability measurements were used to assess the formation of a polarised epithelium with functional barrier properties. Expression of tight junction, adherens junction and ion/water transport proteins were examined by Western blot and RT-PCR. Results: NCI-H441 cells cultured under air-medium conditions exhibited electrical resistance (258 \xb1 28 \u2126\u2022 cm2), potential difference (4.8\xb1 0.1 mV) and strong expression of \u03b11-Na+-K+-ATPase and tight junction protein ZO-1 consistent with the formation of a polarised epithelium. These cultures also expressed the chloride channel CFTR and all four subunits of the sodium channel ENaC. Cells cultured under medium-medium conditions had a 4-fold higher electrical resistance (1009 \xb1 15 \u2126\u2022 cm2), but similar level of potential difference (4.9 \xb1 0.2 mV) and weaker expression of \u03b11-Na+-K+-ATPase and ZO-1. The A549 cell line developed low levels of electrical resistance and potential difference and did not express ZO-1. No significant difference in CFTR and ENaC transport protein expression was observed between the cell lines or culture conditions. Conclusion: The NCI-H441 cell line cultured under air-medium conditions develops into a polarised epithelium with functional barrier properties and expresses transport proteins for sodium and chloride transport. Hence it can serve as a suitable model for investigating water and ion transport in the alveolar epithelium.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/256/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Respiratory Medicine'], [u'Auckland Bioenginering Institute, The University of Auckland', u'Department of Engineering Science, University of Auckland', u'Maurice Wilkins Centre for Molecular Biodiscovery, University of Auckland']]
[u'The effect of the required current/frequency combinations (EC 1099/2009) on the incidence of cardiac arrest in broilers stunned and slaughtered for the halal market', ['Steve S.B. Wotton', 'Xiaofan Zhang', 'Justin J.L. McKinstry', 'Antonio Velarde', 'Toby G Knowles'], u'2014-02-24', u'Multi-bird water bath stunning is the only method permitted for stunning broilers in halal plants in the UK. The electrocardiogram (ECG) was measured in broilers that were stunned electrically in a commercial water bath using four of the frequency/current parameters permitted under EU Regulation (1099/2009) plus a control treatment (pulsed DC waveform). The results showed that there were no differences between the treatments in that all the birds displayed a rhythmic heart beat following stunning and before slaughter. An opportunity to observe recovery in a small number of broilers (nine) in a Spanish processing plant suggested that AC at 1000 Hz applied at 200 mA per bird would also meet both the legislative requirements and the needs of the halal market, in that all birds recovered from the stun.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/255/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Food Science and Technology'], [u'School of Veterinary Sciences, University of Bristol', u'Animal Welfare Subprogram, Institut de Recerca i Tecnologia Agroalimentaries']]
[u'The UK vs Sweden: Is the NHS really so bad?', ['Emmanuel N Lazaridis', 'Lucia Gavalova', 'Simon Jones', 'Tom Quinn', 'Clive Weston'], u'2014-02-21', u'Sheng-Chia Chung and colleagues report in The Lancet (23 January 2014) an international comparison of cardiovascular patient mortality between the UK and Sweden. They suggest that \u201cmore than 10000 deaths at 30 days would have been prevented or delayed had UK patients experienced the care of their Swedish counterparts.\u201d Further, they estimate that 1741 deaths would have been prevented in the UK had the Swedish pattern of primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and beta-blocker use been replicated in the NHS from 2004 to 2010. However, their study does not provide convincing evidence that faster uptake of primary PCI or beta-blockers on discharge would have had an effect on cardiovascular patient mortality in the UK.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/253/', ['Cardiology', 'Epidemiology', 'Statistics'], [u'National Institute for Cardiovascular Outcomes Research, University College London', u'Department of Health Care Management and Policy, University of Surrey', u'Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of Surrey', u'College of Medicine, Swansea University']]
[u'Urban park characteristics, genetic variation, and historical demography of white-footed mouse (Peromyscus leucopus) populations in New York City', ['Jason Munshi-South', 'Christopher Nagy'], u'2014-02-20', u'Severe fragmentation is a typical fate of native remnant habitats in cities, and urban wildlife with limited dispersal ability are predicted to lose genetic variation in isolated urban patches. However, little information exists on the characteristics of urban green spaces required to conserve genetic variation. In this study, we examine whether isolation in New York City (NYC) parks results in genetic bottlenecks in white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus), and test the hypotheses that park size and time since isolation are associated with genetic variability using nonlinear regression and information-theoretic model selection. White-footed mice have previously been documented to exhibit male-biased dispersal, which may create disparities in genetic variation between males and females in urban parks. We use genotypes of 18 neutral microsatellite data and four different statistical tests to assess this prediction. Given that sex-biased dispersal may create disparities between population genetic patterns inferred from bi- vs. uni-parentally inherited markers, we also sequenced a 324 bp segment of the mitochondrial D-loop for independent inferences of historical demography in urban P. leucopus. We report that isolation in urban parks does not necessarily result in genetic bottlenecks; only three out of 14 populations in NYC parks exhibited a signature of a recent bottleneck at 18 neutral microsatellite loci. Mouse populations in larger urban parks, or parks that have been isolated for shorter periods of time, also do not generally contain greater genetic variation than populations in smaller parks. These results suggest that even small networks of green spaces may be sufficient to maintain the evolutionary potential of native species with certain characteristics. We also found that isolation in urban parks results in weak to nonexistent sex-biased dispersal in a species known to exhibit male-biased dispersal in less fragmented environments. In contrast to nuclear loci, mitochondrial D-loop haplotypes exhibited a mutational pattern of demographic expansion after a recent bottleneck or selective sweep. Estimates of the timing of this expansion suggest that it occurred concurrent with urbanization of NYC over the last few dozens to hundreds of years. Given the general non-neutrality of mtDNA in many systems and evidence of selection on related coding sequences in urban P. leucopus, we argue that the P. leucopus mitochondrial genome experienced recent negative selection against haplotypes not favored in isolated urban parks. In general, rapid adaptive evolution driven by urbanization, global climate change, and other human-caused factors is underappreciated by evolutionary biologists, but many more cases will likely be documented in the near future.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/165/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'Biological Sciences & the Louis Calder Center, Fordham University', u'Mianus River Gorge Preserve']]
[u'Observations of a naturalized Gazania population & fruit morphology of a Baccharis species', ['Aleksi Baznekian'], u'2014-02-20', u'Gazania linearis is reported to be naturalized in California (amongst a host of cultivated Gazania hybrids and species), and the fruits of Baccharis salicifolia ssp. salicifolia are reported to have 5 ribs. By carrying out a morphological study of a naturalized Gazania population, and fruits of a B. s. ssp. salicifolia individual, I was able to conclude that G. linearis may not be the only naturalized Gazania species in the population studied here (and perhaps across California), and that the number of ribs on the fruits of B. s. ssp. salicifolia are not restricted to 5, and in fact, vary in numbers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/252/', ['Biodiversity', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Private Researcher']]
[u'Effects of repeated head trauma causing mental health problems including chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE) in athletes', ['Mason W Briles'], u'2014-02-19', u'This paper focuses on the effects of repeated head trauma in athletes and how these repetitive blows to the head are causing a range of mental health problems. The primary focus, in terms of problems addressed, is chronic traumatic encephalopathy (often referred to as CTE) in the population of athletes, especially those participating in contact and combat sports. The disorders covered are caused by the cumulative effects of both concussive and sub-concussive blows to the head over a period of time.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/251/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Kinesiology', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Student, Auburn University']]
[u'Overload injuries in barefoot/minimal footwear running: evidence from crowd sourcing', ['Martin Daumer', 'Christine Kleinmond', 'Christoph Stolle', 'Christian Lederer', 'Marc Hilgers', 'Markus Walther'], u'2014-02-18', u'Background: The incidence of injuries in minimal footwear or barefoot runners compared to runners using conventional running shoes is still being discussed.\nMethods: We focus here on methods and results of a online survey in a community of minimal footwear/barefoot (MF/B) runners. The aim of the survey was to investigate the viability of the method and to record first insights on running behavior, distance performance and injuries.\nResults: In total 226 runners answered the questionnaire, 15 subjects had to be removed due to invalid data. A total of 211 (94%) subjects (152 male, ages 15-71 years [mean=40]) were included in the analysis. The risk to suffer a running related injury was significantly increased during the time period of changing from shod running to MF/B running (see Table 2). The injury rate per km was markedly lower \u2013 about one half - in MF/B than in shod running, but threefold higher during the transition period.\nDiscussion/Conclusion: Future research into the right \u201cdosage\u201d of barefoot/minimal footwear running in the transition period is warranted. We speculate that special adaptations - which may take years and thousands of kilometers to become effective - of the neuromuscular control play a major role, very similar to the thousands of hours a person needs to play and practice playing the piano before becoming a musician.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/250/', ['Epidemiology', 'Kinesiology', 'Orthopedics', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Research, SLCMSR e.V. (Sylvia Lawry Centre for Multiple Sclerosis Research e.V.) - The Human Motion Institute', u'ClinProject GmbH', u'Sports Medicine, Level One Orthopedics', u'Centre for Foot and Ankle Surgery, Sch\xf6n Klinik M\xfcnchen Harlaching']]
[u'Marine biodiversity and ecosystem functioning: what\u2019s known and what\u2019s next?', ['Lars Gamfeldt', 'Jonathan S Lefcheck', 'Jarrett E K Byrnes', 'Bradley J Cardinale', 'J. Emmett Duffy', 'John N Griffin'], u'2014-02-17', u"Marine ecosystems are experiencing rapid and pervasive loss of species. Understanding the consequences of species loss is critical to effectively managing these systems. Over the last several years, numerous experimental manipulations of species richness have been performed, yet existing quantitative syntheses have focused on a just a subset of processes measured in experiments and, as such, have not summarized the full data available from marine systems. Here, we present the results of a meta-analysis of 174 marine experiments from 42 studies that have manipulated the species richness of organisms across a range of taxa and trophic levels and analysed the consequences for various ecosystem processes (categorised as production, consumption or biogeochemical fluxes). Our results show that, generally, mixtures of species tend to enhance levels of ecosystem function relative to the average component species in monoculture, but have no or negative effect on functioning relative to the \u2018highest-performing' species. These results are largely consistent with those from other syntheses, and extend conclusions to ecological functions that are most commonly measured in the marine realm (e.g. nutrient release from sediment bioturbation). For experiments that manipulated three or more levels of richness, we attempted to discern the functional form of the BEF relationship. We found that, for response variables categorised as consumption, a power-function best described the relationship, which is also consistent with previous findings. However, we identified a linear relationship between richness and production. Combined, our results suggest that losses of species will, on average, tend to alter the functioning of marine ecosystems. We outline several research frontiers that will allow us to more fully understand how, why, and when diversity may drive the functioning of marine ecosystems.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/249/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg, Sweden', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Virginia Institute of Marine Science, The College of William & Mary', u'Department of Biology, University of Massachusetts Boston', u'School of Natural Resources and Environment, University of Michigan', u'Tennenbaum Marine Observatories Network, Smithsonian Institution', u'Department of Biosciences, Swansea University']]
[u'Intuitive physics and intuitive psychology (\u201ctheory of mind\u201d) in offspring of mothers with psychoses', ['Rebeka Marothi', 'Szabolcs Keri'], u'2014-02-17', u'Offspring of individuals with psychoses sometimes display an abnormal development of cognition, language, motor performance, social adaptation, and emotional functions. The aim of this study was to investigate the ability of children of mothers with schizophrenia (n=28) and bipolar disorder (n=23) to understand mental states of others using the Eyes Test (folk psychology or \u201ctheory of mind\u201d) and physical causal interactions of inanimate objects (folk psychics). Compared with healthy controls (n=29), the children of mothers with schizophrenia displayed significantly impaired performances on the Eyes Test but not on the folk physics test. The children of mothers with bipolar disorder did not differ from the controls and outperformed the children of mothers with schizophrenia on the folk physics test. These results suggest that the attribution of mental states, but not the interpretation of causal interaction of objects, is impaired in offspring of individuals with schizophrenia, which may contribute to social dysfunctions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/248/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'National Psychiatry Center']]
[u'Next-generation sequencing reveals cryptic Symbiodinium diversity within Orbicella faveolata and Orbicella franksi at the Flower Garden Banks, Gulf of Mexico', ['Elizabeth Green', 'Sarah W. Davies', 'Mikhail V. Matz', 'Monica Medina'], u'2014-02-15', u'The genetic composition of the resident Symbiodinium endosymbionts appears to strongly modulate the physiological performance of reef-building corals. Here, we used deep amplicon sequencing to quantitatively assess Symbiodinium genetic diversity for the two mountainous star corals, Orbicella franksi and Orbicella faveolata, from two reefs separated by 19 kilometers of deep water. We aimed to determine if symbiont diversity is largely partitioned with respect to coral host species or geographic location. Our results demonstrate that across the two reefs both coral species contained only Symbiodinium identifiable as clade B type B1, represented by five distinct haplotypes. Three of these haplotypes have not been previously described and may be endemic to the Flower Garden Banks. No consistent differences in symbiont composition were detected between the two coral species. However, significant quantitative differences were observed between the east and west banks for two of the five haplotypes. These results highlight the need for consistent molecular genotyping techniques to assess local community assemblages of Symbiodinium-host relationships, which could be largely irrespective of host genetic background. This deep-sequencing approach used to sensitively characterize cryptic genetic diversity of Symbiodinium will potentially contribute to the understanding of physiological variations among coral populations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/246/', ['Biodiversity', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Quantitative and Systems Biology, University of California, Merced', u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas at Austin', u'Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University']]
[u'Differential genotoxicity of diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2 and diphenyl ditelluride (PhTe)2', ['Joao B Rocha', 'Daiane F. Meinerz', 'Josiane Allebrandt', 'Emily Pansera Waczuk', 'Felix Soares', 'Waseem Hassan', 'Douglas Mariano'], u'2014-02-13', u'Organoselenium compounds have been pointed out as therapeutic agents. In contrast, the potential therapeutic aspects of tellurides have not yet been demonstrated. The present study evaluated the comparative toxicological effects of diphenyl diselenide (PhSe)2 and diphenyl ditelluride (PhTe)2 in mice after in vivo administration. Genotoxicity (as determined by comet assay) and mutagenicicity were used as end-points of toxicity. Subcutaneous administration of high doses of (PhSe)2 or (PhTe)2 (500 \u03bcmol/Kg) caused distinct genotoxicity in mice. (PhSe)2 significantly decreased the DNA damage index after 48 and 96 hours of its injection (p<0.05). In contrast, (PhTe) caused a significant increase in DNA damage (p<0.05) after 48 and 96 hours of intoxication. (PhSe)2 did not cause mutagenicity but (PhTe)2 increased the micronuclei frequency, indicating its mutagenic potential. The present study demonstrated that acute in vivo exposure to ditelluride caused genotoxicity in mice, which may be associated with pro-oxidant effects of diphenyl ditelluride. These results indicated that exposure to ditelluride can be genotoxic to mice and the use of this compound and possibly other related tellurides must be carefully controlled.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/245/', ['Toxicology'], [u'Departamento de Bioqu\xedmica e Biologia Molecular, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria', u'Post-Graduate Program in Biochemical Toxicology, Universidade Federal de Santa Maria']]
[u'Fuelling in front of the barrier - are there age based behavioral differences in Garden Warblers Sylvia borin?', ['Christos Barboutis', 'Ian Henshaw', 'Cecilia Kullberg', 'Stamatina Nikolopoulou', 'Thord Fransson'], u'2014-02-12', u'Garden Warblers Sylvia borin were studied during autumn stopover in Crete before crossing the barrier of the Mediterranean Sea and the Sahara desert. Birds followed with transmitters show extensive stopover periods, which were longer in first-year birds, 16 days, compared with adult birds, 14 days. The distribution of body masses from birds trapped in fig trees were used to estimate the departure body mass and the results found indicate that both age categories on average depart with a fuel load close to 100% of lean body mass. The movement of transmitter birds shows differences between first-year and adult birds. Adult birds move further away from the release site and many also left the study area. Several were found settled outside the study area, up to 17 km away, indicating that they regularly make longer stopover movements. It is suggested that this might be a result of that they return to a place where they stayed during an earlier migration. It was shown that stopover site fidelity exists and nine garden warblers were recaptured in the area during a following autumn. The results found highlights the importance of stopover areas close to the Sahara desert.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/244/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Natural History Museum of Crete, University of Crete', u'Department of Zoology, Stockholm University', u'Institute of Marine Biology, Biotechnology and Aquaculture, Hellenic Centre for Marine Research', u'Department of Environmental Research and Monitoring, Swedish Museum of Natural History']]
[u'Mining transcriptomic data to study the origins and evolution of a plant allopolyploid complex', ['Aureliano Bombarely', 'Jeremy E Coate', 'Jeff J Doyle'], u'2014-02-12', u'Allopolyploidy combines two progenitor genomes in the same nucleus, and is a common mechanism for producing new species, especially in plants. Deciphering the origins of polyploid species is a complex problem, due to, among other things, extinct progenitors, multiple origins, gene flow between different polyploid populations, and loss of parental contributions through gene or chromosome loss. In this work,\nwe studied three allopolyploid species in the genus Glycine, which includes the cultivated soybean (G. max). Previous work based on two nuclear sequences showed that these allopolyploids combine the genomes of extant diploid species in the G. tomentella complex. We use several phylogenetic and population genomics approaches to clarify the origin of these species using single nucleotide polymorphism data and a guided transcriptome assembly. The results support the hypothesis that each of the three polyploid species are fixed hybrids combining the homoeologous genomes of its two putative parents. Based on mapping to the soybean reference genome, there appear to be no large regions for which one homoeologous contribution is missing. Phylogenetic analyses of 27 selected transcripts using a coalescent approach also indicates multiple origins for G. tomentella polyploid species, and suggest that origins occurred within the last several hundred thousands years.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/243/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Plant Biology, Cornell University', u'Department of Biology, Reed College']]
[u'Direct-to-consumer genetic testing in the college classroom: Knowledge, attitudes, and concerns of introductory biology students', ['Nicanor Austriaco'], u'2014-02-12', u'Pioneered by companies like 23andMe.com, deCODEme.com, and Navigenics.com, direct-to-consumer genetic testing refers to genetic tests that are marketed directly to consumers via television, print media, or the Internet. This kind of testing provides access to a customer\u2019s genetic information without necessarily involving either a medical health care professional or a genetic counselor in the process. In recent years, a course offered to medical and graduate students at Stanford University has included an option for students to undergo personal genotyping, raising the possibility that direct-to-consumer genetic testing could also be incorporated into undergraduate biology courses to enhance student learning. In this study, I assess the attitudes and concerns of college students enrolled in the first semester of an introductory majors course in biology, before and after they had completed the course, regarding the availability of this technology and its possible use in the college classroom. The pre-course survey revealed that these students were open to the possibility of using this technology in their courses, but that they had concerns about the confidentiality and the accuracy of their genetic results. Strikingly, however, completing the genetics, molecular and cellular biology semester-long portion of the yearlong introductory sequence in biology appeared to boost student confidence in this technology and its use in the undergraduate classroom.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/242/', ['Genetics', 'Medical Genetics', 'Ethical Issues', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Biology, Providence College']]
[u'Toxicity of differently sized and coated silver nanoparticles to the bacterium Pseudomonas putida', ['Marianne Matzke', 'Kerstin Jurkschat', 'Thomas Backhaus'], u'2014-02-12', u'Aim of this study was to describe the toxicity of a set of different commercially available silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) to the gram-negative bacterium Pseudomonas putida (growth inhibition assay, ISO 10712) in order to contribute to their environmental hazard and risk assessment. Different AgNP sizes and coatings were selected in order to analyze whether those characteristics are determinants of nanoparticle toxicity. Silver nitrate was tested for comparison. In general Pseudomonas putida reacted very sensitive towards the exposure to silver, with an EC 05  value of 0.043 \xb5 g L-1 for AgNO 3  and between 0.13 and 3.41 \xb5 g L-1 for the different AgNPs (EC 50  values 0.16 \xb5 g L-1 for AgNO3, resp. between 0.25 and 13.5 \xb5 g L-1 for AgNPs). As the ionic form of silver is clearly the most toxic, an environmental hazard assessment for microorganisms based on total silver concentration and the assumption that AgNPs dissolve is sufficiently protective. Neither specific coatings nor certain sizes could be linked to increasing or decreasing toxicity. The characterization of particle behavior as well as the total and dissolved silver content in the medium during the exposures was not possible due to the high sensitivity of Pseudomonas (test concentrations were below detection limits), indicating the need for further development in the analytical domain. Monitored silver concentrations in the aquatic environment span six orders of magnitude (0.1 \u2013 120000 ng L-1 ), which falls into the span of observed EC 05  values and might hence indicate a risk to environmental bacteria.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/26/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology', 'Toxicology'], [u'Acremann Section, Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (NERC)', u'Department of Materials, Oxford University, Begbroke Science Park', u'Department of Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg']]
[u'FragBuilder: An efficient Python library to setup quantum chemistry calculations on peptide models', ['Anders Steen Christensen', 'Thomas Hamelryck', 'Jan H Jensen'], u'2014-02-05', u'', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/169/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Chemistry, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Biology, Bioinformatics Center, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Tree mortality from a global-change type drought coupled with a short-duration freezing event in a Southwestern pi\xf1on-juniper woodland, USA', ['Helen M Poulos'], u'2014-02-04', u'This study documents tree mortality in Big Bend National Park in Texas in response to the most acute one-year drought on record, which occurred in conjunction with a five-day winter freeze. I estimated changes in forest stand structure and species composition due to drought in the Chisos Mountains of Big Bend National Park using permanent monitoring plot data. Tree mortality was pervasive, and it occurred across the entire elevation gradient. Significant mortality occurred in trees up to 20 cm diameter (P < 0.05). Pinus cembroides Zucc. experienced the greatest seedling and tree mortality (P < 0.0001), and over five times as many standing dead pines were observed in 2012 than in 2009. Juniperus deppeana vonSteudal and Quercus emoryi Leibmann also experienced significant declines (P < 0.02). Trees probably died as a result of hydraulic failure, however the preferential mortality of P. cembroides relative to other species could also be tied to its adoption of an isohydric drought tolerance strategy. Subsequent droughts under climate change will likely cause even greater damage to trees that survived this record drought, especially if such events are coupled with freezes. The results from this study highlight the vulnerability of trees in the Southwest to climatic change and that future shifts in forest structure can have large-scale community consequences.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/237/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Plant Science'], [u'College of the Environment, Wesleyan University']]
[u'Counterinsurgency Doctrine Applied to Infectious Disease', ['Benjamin C Kirkup'], u'2014-02-04', u'Recent scientific discoveries lead inexorably to the conclusion that the \u2018total human\u2019 incorporates a necessary body of numerous microbes, including bacteria. These bacteria play a very important role in immunity by actively resisting infections by outside bacteria; however, under certain conditions they can degrade their community. They can arrogate to themselves resources that normally flow through other metabolic pathways and form persistent biological structures. In this situation, these bacteria constitute an insurgency, with strategic ramifications.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/236/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Wound Infections, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research', u'Dept of Medicine, FE Hebert School of Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences']]
[u'Close connections between open science and open-source software', ['Youhua Chen', 'Xueke Lu', 'You-Fang Chen'], u'2014-02-04', u'Open science is increasingly gaining attention in recent years. In this mini-review, we briefly discuss and summarize the reasons of introducing open science into academic publications for scientists. We argue that open-source software (like R and Python software) can be the universal and important platforms for doing open science because of their appealing features: open source, easy-reading document, commonly used in various scientific disciplines like statistics, chemistry and biology. At last, the challenges and future perspectives of performing open science are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/235/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science', 'Legal Issues', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Renewable Resources, University of Alberta', u'Department of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary University of London', u'School of Software, Harbin Normal University']]
[u'Morphometrics of a wild Asian elephant exhibiting disproportionate dwarfism', ['Shermin de Silva', 'U. Sameera Weerathunga', 'T. V. Pushpakumara'], u'2014-02-04', u'Dwarfism is a condition characterized by shorter stature, at times accompanied by differential skeletal growth proportions relative to the species-typical physical conformation. Causes vary and are well-documented in humans as well as certain mammalian species in captive or laboratory conditions, but rarely observed in the wild. Here we report on a single case of apparent dwarfism in a free-ranging adult male Asian elephant (Elephas maximus) in Sri Lanka, comparing physical dimensions to those of other males in the same population, males in other populations, and previous records. The subject was shorter than typical mature males, with a shoulder height of approximately 195cm and a body length of 218cm. This ratio of body length to height also deviates from what is typically observed, which is nearly 1:1. The subject also exhibits a slight elongation of the skull. We discuss how this phenotype compares to cases of dwarfism in other non-human animals.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/234/', ['Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Fish Wildlife and Conservation Biology, Colorado State University', u'Uda Walawe Elephant Research Project, EFECT']]
[u'Regional variation in digital cushion pressure in the forefeet of horses and elephants.', ['Sharon E Warner', 'Victoria Henry', 'Kyle Roskilly', 'Thomas Hildebrandt', 'Olga Panagiotopoulou', 'John R Hutchinson'], u'2014-02-02', u'Horses and elephants have extreme foot designs; horses have an unguligrade foot posture with small, single-toed, rigid hooves housing a small fibrous digital cushion, whereas elephants have large, multi-toed, functionally plantigrade, compliant feet with large adipose filled digital cushions. The morphology of the digital cushion is divergent in these species, in terms of its size, shape, volume, composition and organisation. In the context of foot-ground contact this is interesting, because feet nonetheless have to perform similar mechanical functions in all terrestrial species. How well the digital cushion functions under load may contribute to the aetiopathogenesis of foot disease; a sub-optimal digital cushion is less likely to distribute (and thus reduce) high pressures, moderate impact shock and vibration, or prevent unwarranted bone displacement.\nIn this study, we seek to understand how the digital cushion morphologies evident in horse and elephant feet influence internal and external foot pressures. Our novel use of invasive blood pressure monitoring equipment, combined with a pressure pad and force plate, enabled measurements of (ex vivo) digital cushion pressure under increasing axial loads in seven horse and six elephant forefeet. Linear mixed effects models (LMER) revealed that internal digital cushion pressures increase under load and differ depending on region; elephant feet experienced higher magnitudes of medial digital cushion pressure, whereas horse feet experienced higher magnitudes of centralised digital cushion pressure. Direct comparison of digital cushion pressure magnitudes in both species, at equivalent loads relative to body weight, revealed that medial and lateral pressures increased more rapidly with load in elephant limbs. Within the same approximate region, internal pressures exceeded external, palmar pressures (on the sole of the foot), supporting previous Finite Element (FE) predictions. High pressures and large variations in pressure may relate to the development of foot pathology, which is a major concern in horses and elephants in a captive/domestic environment.\nWe suggest that heterogeneity within the digital cushion allows it to perform conflicting mechanical functions during locomotion; different digital cushion regions may be responsible for specific functions and therefore feature appropriate properties to do so. Determining how internal structures such as the digital cushion respond to locomotor loading is essential to understanding foot health and pathology, as well as the functional consequences of evolutionary changes in foot morphology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/231/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Structure & Motion Lab, Department of Comparative Biomedical Sciences, The Royal Veterinary College', u'Leibniz Institute for Zoo and Wildlife Research', u'School of Biomedical Sciences, Faculty of Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, The University of Queensland']]
[u'Local domestication of microbes via cassava beer fermentation', ['Alese Colehour', 'James F Meadow', 'Tara J Cepon-Robins', 'Theresa E Gildner', 'Melissa A Liebert', 'Samuel S Urlacher', 'Brendan J M Bohannan', 'J Josh Snodgrass', 'Lawrence S Sugiyama'], u'2014-02-02', u'Cassava beer, or chicha, is typically consumed daily by the indigenous Shuar people of the Ecuadorian Amazon. This traditional beverage made from cassava tuber (Manihot esculenta) improves nutritional quality and flavor while extending shelf life in a tropical climate. Bacteria responsible for chicha fermentation could be a source of microbes beneficial to human health, but little is known regarding the microbiology of chicha. We investigated bacterial community composition of chicha batches using Illumina high-throughput sequencing. Fermented chicha samples were collected from seven Shuar households in two neighboring villages in the Morona-Santiago region of Ecuador, and the composition of the bacterial communities within each chicha sample was determined by sequencing a region of the 16S ribosomal gene. Members of the genus Lactobacillus dominated all samples, demonstrating that chicha is a source of organisms related to known probiotics. Significantly greater taxonomic similarity was observed between communities in chicha samples taken within a village than those from different villages. Community composition varied among chicha samples, even those separated by short geographic distances, suggesting that ecological and/or evolutionary processes, including human preference, may be responsible for creating locally adapted and regionally resilient ferments. Our results suggest that traditional fermentation may be a form of domestication that provides endemic beneficial inocula for consumers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/233/', ['Anthropology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biological Anthropology, University of Oregon', u'Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Oregon', u'Department of Human Evolutionary Biology, Harvard University', u'Department of Anthropology, University of Oregon']]
[u'Biblio-MetReS for user-friendly mining of genes and biological processes in scientific documents', ['Anabel Usie', 'Hiren Karathia', 'Ivan Teixido', 'Francesc Solsona', 'Rui Alves'], u'2014-02-02', u'One way to initiate the reconstruction of molecular circuits is by using automated text-mining techniques. Developing more efficient methods for such reconstruction is a topic of active research, and those methods are typically included by bioinformaticians in pipelines used to mine and curate large literature datasets. Nevertheless, experimental biologists have a limited number of available user-friendly tools that use text-mining for network reconstruction and require no programming skills to use. One of these tools is Biblio-MetReS. Originally, this tool permitted an on-the-fly analysis of documents contained in a number of web-based literature databases to identify co-occurrence of proteins/genes. This approach ensured results that were always up-to-date with the latest live version of the databases. However, this \u201cup-to-dateness\u201d came at the cost of large execution times. Here we report an evolution of the application Biblio-MetReS that permits constructing co-occurrence networks for genes, GO process, Pathways, or any combination of the three types of entities and graphically represent those entities. We show that the performance of Biblio-MetReS in identifying gene co-occurrence is as least as good as that of other comparable applications (STRING and iHOP). In addition, we also show that the identification of GO processes is on par to that reported in the latest BioCreAtIvE challenge. Finally, we also report the implementation of a new strategy that combines on-the-fly analysis of new documents with preprocessed information from documents that were encountered in previous analyses. This combination simultaneously decreases program run time and maintains \u201cup-to-dateness\u201d of the results. Availability:  http://metres.udl.cat/index.php/downloads Contact:  metres.cmb@gmail.com', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/232/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Ci\xe8ncies M\xe8diques B\xe0siques, Universitat de Lleida', u'IRBLleida', u'Inform\xe0tica i Enginyeria Industrial, Universitat de Lleida', u'Departament de Ci\xe8ncies M\xe8diques B\xe0siques, IRBLleida', u'Department of Computer Science and Industrial Engineering, Universitat de Lleida', u'Inform\xe0tica i Enginyeria Industrial, Universitat de Lleida']]
[u'Exploring complex disease gene relationships using simultaneous analysis', ['Joseph D Romano', 'William G Tharp', 'Indra N Sarkar'], u'2014-02-01', u'The characterization of complex diseases remains a great challenge for biomedical researchers due to the myriad interactions of genetic and environmental factors. Adaptation of phylogenomic techniques to increasingly available genomic data provides an evolutionary perspective that may elucidate important unknown features of complex diseases. Here an automated method is presented that leverages publicly available genomic data and phylogenomic techniques. The approach is tested with nine genes implicated in the development of Alzheimer Disease, a complex neurodegenerative syndrome. The developed technique, implemented through a suite of Ruby scripts entitled \u201cASAP2,\u201d first compiles a list of sequence-similarity based orthologues using PSI-BLAST and a recursive NCBI BLAST+ search strategy, then constructs maximum parsimony phylogenetic trees for each set of nucleotide and protein sequences, and calculates phylogenetic metrics (partitioned Bremer support values, combined branch scores, and Robinson-Foulds distance) to provide an empirical assessment of evolutionary conservation within a given genetic network. This study demonstrates the potential for using automated simultaneous phylogenetic analysis to uncover previously unknown relationships among disease-associated genes that may not have been apparent using traditional, single-gene methods. Furthermore, the results provide the first integrated evolutionary history of an Alzheimer Disease gene network and identify potentially important co-evolutionary clustering around components of oxidative stress pathways.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/230/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, University of Vermont', u'Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, University of Vermont', u'Center for Clinical and Translational Science, University of Vermont', u'Department of Computer Science, University of Vermont']]
[u'Can pseudocomplementary peptide nucleic acid nucleases (pcPNANs) be a new tool for genetic engineering?', ['Penghui Shi'], u'2014-01-31', u'Zinc-finger nucleases (ZFNs) and transcription activator-like effector nucleases (TALENs) comprise a powerful class of tools that are redefining the boundaries of biological research. Although these technologies have begun to enable targeted genome modifications, there remains a need for new technologies that are scalable, affordable, and easy to engineer. In this paper, we propose a new tool for genetic engineering, the pseudocomplementary peptide nucleic acid nucleases (pcPNANs), which are composed of a pseudocomplementary PNA (pcPNA) specific for a DNA target sequence, a FokI nuclease cleavage domain and a nuclear localization signal. pcPNANs may induce targeted DNA double-strand breaks that activate DNA damage response pathways and enable custom alterations. Their cleavage-site is determined by simple Watson-Crick rule, and thus pcPNANs for aimed cleavage of genomes can be straightforwardly designed and synthesized without any selection procedure. Accordingly, the cleavage-site and site-specificity are freely chosen by changing the sequences and the lengths of pcPNA strands. We believe that the potentiality of pcPNAN as a new tool for genetic engineering will be confirmed in the future.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/229/', ['Biotechnology', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Gansu Key Lab of Crop Improvement & Germplasm Enhancement, Gansu Provincial Key Laboratory of Aridland Crop Sciences, Gansu Agricultural University']]
[u'Levodopa-stimulated dopamine release in Tourette syndrome', ['Kevin J Black', 'Marilyn L. Piccirillo', 'Jonathan M. Koller', 'Tiffany Hseih', 'Lei Wang', 'Mark A. Mintun'], u'2014-01-31', u'RATIONALE: Several lines of evidence suggest that dopamine (DA)-influenced neuronal pathways may malfunction in Tourette Syndrome (TS). Some PET studies support the hypothesis of presynaptic abnormalities in levodopa uptake, dopamine synthesis, or dopamine release.\nOBJECTIVE: Directly test the presynaptic hypothesis using a new approach.\nMETHODS: We used positron emission tomography (PET) and [11C]raclopride (RAC*) to measure synaptic dopamine release before and during levodopa and placebo infusions (with carbidopa) in 5neuroleptic-na\xefve adults with TS and 5 matched control subjects. The primary analysis examined RAC* binding potential (BPND) in predefined volumes of interest (VOIs). A secondary analysis compared BPND voxel by voxel over the entire brain.\nRESULTS: (1) Baseline RAC* BPND did not differ significantly between groups, though nucleus accumbens BPND was higher in TS (16%, p=0.051). (2) DA release declined from before to during infusions (p=0.014), including with placebo. (3) This decline was smaller in TS (p=0.080). (4) Levodopa\u2019s effect on BPND differed significantly in right midbrain (p=0.002, corrected), where levodopa displaced RAC* by 59% in control subjects but increased BPND by 74% in TS subjects, and in parahippocampal gyrus (p=0.02, corrected).\nDISCUSSION: Our finding that a before/after RAC* design is confounded by time and/or expectation effects may have implications for other RAC* PET studies. The smaller decrease of BPND with time in TS may be attributable to impaired habituation to the scan environment. Levodopa\u2019s opposite effect on RAC* binding in TS dopaminergic midbrain but may signify an abnormal response to dopaminergic stimulation in TS.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/30/', ['Neuroscience', 'Neurology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St. Louis', u'Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis', u'Department of Radiology, Washington University in St. Louis', u'Department of Anatomy & Neurobiology, Washington University in St. Louis', u'School of Arts and Sciences, Washington University in St. Louis', u'University of Cincinnati School of Medicine', u'Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine', u'Department of Radiology, Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine', u'Avid Radiopharmaceuticals']]
[u'Demonstration of antibiotic-induced tolerance development in tropical agroecosystems through physiological profiling of sediment microbial communities', ['Maria Arias-Andres', 'Clemens Ruepert', 'Fernando Garcia', 'Cesar Rodriguez'], u'2014-01-31', u'Agricultural use of antibiotics differs quantitatively and qualitatively in tropical and temperate countries. To gain insight into the nature and magnitude of physiological adaptations prompted by these drugs in microbial communities from tropical agroecosystems, we compared community-level physiological profiles of sediment bacteria from a protected wetland (PV), a pig farm (RD), treated (TIL1) and untreated effluents (TIL2) from a tilapia farm, an estuary close to shrimp farms (CA), and an irrigation channel adjacent to a rice plantation (AZ) exposed to a range of oxytetracycline (OTC) concentrations in Ecoplates (Biolog\xae). In addition, we used LC/MS/MS and plate counts to determine the concentration of OTC and the number of OTC-resistant bacteria in the samples, respectively. Water samples collected at RD contained maximum amounts of OTC (640 ng L-1), followed by TIL2 (249 ng L-1), TIL1 (72 ng L-1), and CA (85 ng L-1). In average, the microbial community of RD was more tolerant to OTC (EC50: 14.30 \xb1 3.12 mg L-1) than bacteria from CA (8.83 \xb1 1.85 mg Ll-1), TIL2 (EC50: 4.97 \xb1 1.43 mg L-1), TIL1 (4.25 \xb1 0.60 mg L-1), AZ (3.66 \xb1 0.97 mg L-1) and PV (3.77 \xb1 0.62 mg L-1). Congruently, PV, AZ, TIL1, CA, TIL2, and RD appeared in that order in a cumulative distribution of individual EC50 values and higher plate counts of bacteria resistant to 10 \xb5g mL-1 (5.0x105- 1.5x107) and 100 \xb5g mL-1 of OTC (1.5x104-8.4x105) were obtained for RD than for the other sites (10 \xb5g ml-1: 4.8x104-3.3x105 and 100 \xb5g mL-1: 1.0x102-4.4x103). These results are compatible with a scenario in which the basal level of tolerance to OTC that characterizes pristine environments (PV) is amplified in proportion to the intensity of antibiotic exposure (agriculture<aquaculture<swine farming).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/228/', ['Ecosystem Science', 'Microbiology', 'Toxicology'], [u'IRET, Universidad Nacional', u'CIET & Facultad de Microbiologia, Universidad de Costa Rica']]
[u'In situ effects of simulated overfishing and eutrophication on settlement of benthic coral reef invertebrates in the Central Red Sea', ['Christian Jessen', 'Christian R. Voolstra', 'Christian Wild'], u'2014-01-30', u'In the Central Red Sea, relatively pristine coral reefs meet intense coastal development, but data on the effects of related stressors for reef functioning are lacking. This in situ study therefore investigated the independent and combined effects of simulated overfishing and eutrophication on settlement of reef associated invertebrates on light-exposed and -shaded tiles over 4 months. Findings revealed that at the end of the study period invertebrates had almost exclusively colonized shaded tiles, indicating that algae were superior settling competitors on light-exposed tiles. On the shaded tiles, simulated overfishing prevented settlement of hard corals, but significantly increased settlement of polychaetes, while simulated eutrophication only significantly decreased hard coral settlement relative to controls. The combined treatment significantly increased settlement of bryozoans and bivalves compared to controls and individual manipulations, but significantly decreased polychaetes compared to simulated overfishing. These results suggest settlement of polychaetes and hard corals as potential bioindicators for overfishing and eutrophication, respectively, and settlement of bivalves and bryozoans for a combination of both. Therefore, if investigated stressors are not controlled, phase shifts from dominance by hard corals to that by other invertebrates may occur at shaded reef locations in the Central Red Sea.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/227/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Coral Reef Ecology Group (CORE), Leibniz Center for Tropical Marine Ecology (ZMT Bremen)', u'Red Sea Research Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology', u'Faculty of Biology and Chemistry, University of Bremen']]
[u'Lack of tonotopic organization of the auditory cortex in schizophrenia', ['Thomas Ragole', 'Erin Slason', 'Peter Teale', 'Martin Reite', 'Donald C. Rojas'], u'2014-01-30', u'Background: Disorganization of tonotopy in the auditory cortex has been described in schizophrenia. Subjects with schizophrenia show little to no spatial organization of responses to different tone frequencies in the auditory cortex. Previous studies have called into question the use of MEG and the M100 response to assess tonotopy. This study seeks to replicate prior results of tonotopic disorganization in schizophrenia compared to healthy controls. \nMethods: The tonotopic organization for 400 Hz and 4,000 Hz sound in 19 patients with schizophrenia and 11 comparison subjects was determined using MEG by examining the M100 auditory-evoked magnetic field dipole in primary auditory cortex. The equivalent current dipole locations were then mapped and compared. \nResults: The previous result of a lack of tonotopy in subjects with schizophrenia was partly replicated. In control subjects, the 400 Hz tone auditory evoked field was found anterior to the 4000 Hz in the primary auditory cortex.\n Conclusions: The lack of tonotopic organization of the auditory cortex is replicable in patients with schizophrenia and suggests that the architecture underlying tonotopy in the auditory cortex is disordered. This result suggests possible alteration in the organization of the auditory cortex, which may in turn influence higher order cognitive processes by altering the perception of incoming auditory stimuli.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/226/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Psychiatry, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus']]
[u'Pan-genomics: Unmasking the gene diversity hidden in the bacteria species', ['Luis David Alcaraz'], u'2014-01-30', u"The dramatic increase in genome sequencing during the last years has changed our ideas about bacterial diversity, from single gene to whole community DNA surveys; we have learned that nature's lagest gene repository resides in bacteria resides in bacteria. Comparison of bacteria genomes has contributed to understand the flexibility in size and gene content as well as the gene movement due to gene family expansions and Horizontal Gene Transfer. Bacteria species are currently defined by means of 16S rRNA sequence comparisons and some limited phenotypic traits. There is an ongoing debate about the biological and evolutive significance of the bacteria species, and thus the need to refine the definition of it using the most of the genomic shared information across any taxonomic range. When comparing multiple genomes of related strains we can distinguish a set of common shared features which are known as the core genome. In the other hand, the set of strain specific genes are known as accessory genome. The accessory and core genome conform the total of the genetic composition, and are known as pan-genome. Here we present the possibilities using pan-genomics as a workhorse to describe both taxonomical and functional diversity within bacteria.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/113/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Instituto de Ecolog\xeda, UNAM']]
[u'Intrabasin Floral Differences in the Sonoran Desert; a case study from the Casa Grande Valley', ['Gabriela Garcia', 'Sarah Gabriele', 'Benjamin Cowgill', 'Xavier Rodriguez', 'Robert J Gay'], u'2014-01-30', u'Background: The purpose of this study was to determine what floral differences exist in North Mountain Park and Casa Grande Mountain Park which are both located on opposite sides of the Casa Grande Valley, Pinal County, Arizona and to attempt to explain any measured differences. Previous authors have proposed several explanations for floral variation within the Sonoran Desert including elevation, soil pH, and mineral content. This study explicitly tests several of these proposed mechanisms for determining community composition. Methods: The floral composition was measured in both North Mountain Park and Casa Grande Mountain Park through a series of transects which were sampled by multiple times in 2012 and 2013. Elevation data soil pH were also sampled. Results: The data recovered from North Mountain Park differed from the expected values in Casa Grande Mountain Park by 22%. This indicates a significant difference in the flora between these two localities that was not predicted by earlier studies. Elevation and soil pH differences between sampled localities were not significant. This suggests that mineral composition of the soil may play an important role within this basin in determining community composition. Discussion: Many factors that have been proposed in prior studies do not appear to play a significant role within the Casa Grande Valley in determining community composition. This indicates that the composition of a community is influenced by different factors in different locations within the Sonoran Desert. This makes determining overall controlling factors across an ecosystem difficult.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/207/', ['Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Mission Heights Preparatory High School', u'Science Department, Mission Heights Preparatory High School']]
[u'Enhancing physical activity on the dance floor through a mobile phone application', ['Kien Hoa Ly', 'Daniel Beauchamp', 'Gerhard Andersson'], u'2014-01-29', u'Research indicates that there is a potential for persuasive technologies to be used as a means for increasing physical activity. In this exploratory work, we developed a mobile web application to gather movement data to explore the potential of a health tool in the context of a dance floor to promote physical activity. We wanted to explore if the mobile application in combination with the context and mechanisms seen in other health applications could drive physical activity. In total, 208 participants generated 20,279 data points through the mobile application on the dance floor. The result from this work points out that the concept should be further investigated in more studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/225/', ['Public Health', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Link\xf6ping University, Department of Behavioural Sciences and Learning', u'Hyper Island, Digital Data Strategist']]
[u'A nested phylogenetic reconstruction approach provides scalable resolution in the eukaryotic Tree Of Life', ['Jaime Huerta-Cepas', 'Marina Marcet-Houben', 'Toni Gabaldon'], u'2014-01-28', u'Assembling the Tree Of Life (TOL) faces the pressing challenge of incorporating a rapidly growing number of sequenced genomes. This problem is exacerbated by the fact that different sets of genes are informative at different evolutionary scales. Here, we present a novel phylogenetic approach ( N ested P hylogenetic R econstruction) in which each tree node is optimized based on the genes shared at that taxonomic level. We apply such procedure to reconstruct a 216-species eukaryotic TOL and compare it with a standard concatenation-based approach. The resulting topology is highly accurate, and reveals general trends such as the relationship between branch lengths and genome content in eukaryotes. The approach lends itself to continuous update, and we show this by adding 29 and 173 newly-sequenced species in two consecutive steps. The proposed approach, which has been implemented in a fully-automated pipeline, enables the reconstruction and continuous update of highly-resolved phylogenies of sequenced organisms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/223/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics'], [u'Bioinformatics and Genomics, Centre for Genomic Regulation', u'Structural and Computational Biology Unit, EMBL', u'Universitat Pompeu Fabra', u"Inctituci\xf3 Catalana d'Estudis Avan\xe7ats (ICREA)"]]
[u'Analyzing Machupo virus-receptor binding by molecular dynamics simulations', ['Austin G Meyer', 'Sara L Sawyer', 'Andrew D Ellington', 'Claus O Wilke'], u'2014-01-27', u'In many biological applications, we would like to be able to computationally predict mutational effects on affinity in protein-\xadprotein interactions. However, many commonly used methods to predict these effects perform poorly in important test cases. In particular, the effects of multiple mutations, non\xadalanine substitutions, and flexible loops are difficult to predict with available tools and protocols. We present here an existing method applied in a novel way to a new test case; we interrogate affinity differences resulting from mutations in a host-\xadvirus protein-\xadprotein interface. We use steered molecular dynamics (SMD) to computationally pull the machupo virus (MACV) spike glycoprotein (GP1) away from the human transferrin receptor (hTfR1). We then approximate affinity using the maximum applied force of separation and the area under the force-\xadversus-\xaddistance curve. We find, even without the rigor and planning required for free energy calculations, that these quantities can provide novel biophysical insight into the GP1/hTfR1 interaction. First, with no prior knowledge of the system we can differentiate among wild type and mutant complexes. Moreover, we show that this simple SMD scheme correlates well with relative free energy differences computed via free energy perturbation. Second, although the static co-\xadcrystal structure shows two large hydrogen-\xadbonding networks in the GP1/hTfR1 interface, our simulations indicate that one of them may not be important for tight binding. Third, one viral site known to be critical for infection may mark an important evolutionary suppressor site for infection-\xadresistant hTfR1 mutants. Finally, our approach provides a framework to compare the effects of multiple mutations, individually and jointly, on protein-protein interactions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/138/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Computational Biology', 'Virology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Molecular Biosciences, University of Texas at Austin', u'Department of Integrative Biology, University of Texas at Austin', u'School of Medicine, Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center']]
[u'A new direction for prenatal chromosome microarray testing: software-targeting for detection of clinically significant chromosome imbalance without equivocal findings', ['Joo Wook Ahn', 'Susan Bint', 'Melita D Irving', 'Phillipa M Kyle', 'Ranjit Akolekar', 'Shehla N Mohammed', 'Caroline Mackie Ogilvie'], u'2014-01-24', u'Purpose. To design and validate a prenatal chromosome microarray testing strategy that moves away from size-based detection thresholds, towards a more clinically relevant analysis, providing higher resolution than G-banded chromosomes but avoiding the detection of imbalances of unclear prognosis that cause parental anxiety.\nMethods. All prenatal samples fulfilling our criteria for karyotype analysis (n=342) were tested by chromosome microarray and only copy number variants of established deletion/duplication syndrome regions and any other imbalance >3Mb were detected and reported. A retrospective full-resolution analysis of 249 of these samples was carried out to ascertain the performance of this testing strategy.\nResults. Using our prenatal analysis, 23/342 (6.7%) samples were found to be abnormal. Of the remaining samples, 249 were anonymized and reanalyzed at full-resolution; a further 46 regions of imbalance were detected in 44 of these traces (17.7%). None of these additional imbalances were of clear clinical significance.\nConclusion. This prenatal chromosome microarray strategy detected all CNVs of clear prognostic value and did not miss any imbalances of clear clinical significance. This strategy avoided both the problems associated with interpreting imbalances of uncertain prognosis and the parental anxiety that are a result of such findings.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/221/', ['Medical Genetics', 'Ethical Issues'], [u'Department of Cytogenetics, Guy\u2019s & St Thomas\u2019 NHS Foundation Trust', u'Department of Cytogenetics, GSTS Pathology', u'Clinical Genetics Service, Guy\u2019s & St Thomas\u2019 NHS Foundation Trust', u'Fetal Medicine Unit, Guy\u2019s & St Thomas\u2019 NHS Foundation Trust', u'Fetal Medicine Unit, Medway Maritime Hospital', u'King\u2019s College']]
[u'The large-scale blast score ratio (LS-BSR) pipeline: a method to rapidly compare genetic content between bacterial genomes', ['Jason W Sahl', 'Greg Caporaso', 'David A Rasko', 'Paul S Keim'], u'2014-01-24', u'Background. As whole genome sequence data from bacterial isolates becomes cheaper to generate, computational methods are needed to correlate sequence data with biological observations. Here we present the large-scale BLAST score ratio (LS-BSR) pipeline, which rapidly compares the genetic content of hundreds to thousands of bacterial genomes, and returns a matrix that describes the relatedness of all coding sequences (CDSs) in all genomes surveyed. This matrix can be easily parsed in order to identify genetic relationships between bacterial genomes. Although pipelines have been published that group peptides by sequence similarity, no other software performs the large-scale, flexible, full-genome comparative analyses carried out by LS-BSR. Results. To demonstrate the utility of the method, the LS-BSR pipeline was tested on 96 Escherichia coli and Shigella genomes; the pipeline ran in 163 minutes using 16 processors, which is a greater than 7-fold speedup compared to using a single processor. The BSR values for each CDS, which indicate a relative level of relatedness, were then mapped to each genome on an independent core genome single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) based phylogeny. Comparisons were then used to identify clade specific CDS markers and validate the LS-BSR pipeline based on molecular markers that delineate between classical E. coli pathogenic variant (pathovar) designations. Scalability tests demonstrated that the LS-BSR pipeline can process 1,000 E. coli genomes in ~60h using 16 processors. Conclusions. LS-BSR is an open-source, parallel implementation of the BSR algorithm, enabling rapid comparison of the genetic content of large numbers of genomes. The results of the pipeline can be used to identify specific markers between user-defined phylogenetic groups, and to identify the loss and/or acquisition of genetic information between bacterial isolates. Taxa-specific genetic markers can then be translated into clinical diagnostics, or can be used to identify broadly conserved putative therapeutic candidates.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/220/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biology, Northern Arizona University', u'Department of Pathogen Genomics, Translational Genomics Research Institute', u'Department of Microbiology and Immunology, University of Maryland School of Medicine']]
[u'Embodied cognition, embodied regulation, and the Data Rate Theorem', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2014-01-23', u"The Data Rate Theorem that establishes a formal linkage between linear control theory and information theory carries deep implications for the design of biologically inspired cognitive architectures (BICA), and for the more general study of embodied cognition. For example, modest extensions of the theorem provide a spectrum of necessary conditions dynamic statistical models that will be useful in empirical studies. A large deviations argument, however, suggests that the stabilization of such systems is itself an interpenetrating dynamic process necessarily convoluted with embodied cognition. As our experience with mental disorders and chronic disease implies, evolutionary process has had only modest success in the regulation and control of cognitive biological phenomena. For humans, the central role of culture has long been known. Although a ground-state collapse analogous to generalized anxiety appears ubiquitous to such systems, lack of cultural modulation for real-time automatons or distributed cognition man-machine `cockpits' makes them particularly subject to a canonical pathology under which `all possible targets are enemies'. More general dysfunctions of large-scale topology and connectivity analogous to autism spectrum and schizophenoform disorders also appear likely. A kind of machine psychiatry may become a central engineering discipline as the number of computation cores in real-time critical systems increases exponentially over the next few decades.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/217/', ['Neuroscience', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Potential range expansion of the invasive Red Shiner, Cyprinella lutrensis (Teleostei: Cyprinidae), under future climatic change', ['Helen M Poulos', 'Barry Chernoff'], u'2014-01-23', u'We built climate envelope models under contemporary and future climates to explore potential range shifts of the invasive Red Shiner-Cyprinella lutrensis. Our objective was to estimate aquatic habitat vulnerability to Red Shiner invasion in North America under future climatic change. We used presence records from within the species\u2019 native and invaded distributions, a suite of bioclimatic predictor variables from three climate models (CCCma, CSIRO, and HadCM3), and maximum entropy modeling to generate potential distribution maps for the year 2080. Our model predicted major range expansion by Red Shiner under both low and high carbon emissions scenarios. The models exceeded average area under the receiver operator characteristic curve values of 0.92, indicating good overall model performance. The model predictions fell largely outside of areas of climatic extrapolation (i.e. regions predicted into environments different from training region) indicating good model performance. The results from this study highlight the large potential range expansion across North America of Red Shiner under future warmer climates.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/216/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'College of the Environment, Wesleyan University']]
[u'Application of zero-inflated negative binomial mixed model to human microbiota sequence data', ['Rui Fang', 'Brandie Wagner', 'J. Kirk Harris', 'Sophie A Fillon'], u'2014-01-23', u'Identification of the majority of organisms present in human-associated microbial communities is feasible with the advent of high throughput sequencing technology. However, these data consist of non-negative, highly skewed sequence counts with a large proportion of zeros. Zero-inflated models are useful for analyzing such data. Moreover, the non-zero observations may be over-dispersed in relation to the Poisson distribution, biasing parameter estimates and underestimating standard errors. In such a circumstance, a zero-inflated negative binomial (ZINB) model better accounts for these characteristics compared to a zero-inflated Poisson (ZIP). In addition, complex study designs are possible with repeated measurements or multiple samples collected from the same subject, thus random effects are introduced to account for the within subject variation. A zero-inflated negative binomial mixed model contains components to model the probability of excess zero values and the negative binomial parameters, allowing for repeated measures using independent random effects between these two components. The objective of this study is to examine the application of a zero-inflated negative binomial mixed model to human microbiota sequence data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/215/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology', 'Statistics'], [u'Colorado School of Public Health, Uinversity of Colorado Denver', u'School of Medicine, University of Colorado Denver', u'University of Colorado Microbiome Research Consortium (MiRC)']]
[u'The fractal dimension of the tree of life', ['Xiaofei Lv', 'Yuping Wu', 'Bin Ma'], u'2014-01-23', u'The structure pattern of the tree of life clues on the key ecological issues; hence knowing the fractal dimension is the fundamental question in understanding the tree of life. Yet the fractal dimension of the tree of life remains unclear since the scale of the tree of life has hypergrown in recent years. Here we show that the tree of life display a consistent power-law rules for inter- and intra-taxonomic levels, but the fractal dimensions were different among different kingdoms. The fractal dimension of hierarchical structure (Dr) is 0.873 for the entire tree of life, which smaller than the values of Dr for Animalia and Plantae but greater than the values of Dr for Fungi, Chromista, and Protozoa. The hierarchical fractal dimensions values for prokaryotic kingdoms are lower than for other kingdoms. The Dr value for Viruses was lower than most eukaryotic kingdoms, but greater than prokaryotes. The distribution of taxa size is governed by fractal diversity but skewed by overdominating taxa with large subtaxa size. The proportion of subtaxa in taxa with small and large sizes was greater than in taxa with intermediate size. Our results suggest that the distribution of subtaxa in taxa can be predicted with fractal dimension for the accumulating taxa abundance rather than the taxa abundance. Our study determined the fractal dimensions for inter- and intra-taxonomic levels of the present tree of life. These results emphases the need for further theoretical studies, as well as predictive modelling, to interpret the different fractal dimension for different taxonomic groups and skewness of taxa with large subtaxa size.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/198/', ['Biodiversity', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Laboratory of Microbial Ecology and Matter Cycles, Yantai Institute of Coastal Zone Research, Chinese Academy of Sciences', u'Ningbo Agricultural Production and Security Agency']]
[u'Brain size varies with temperature in vertebrates', ['James F Gillooly'], u'2014-01-21', u'The tremendous variation in brain size among vertebrates has long been thought to be related to differences in species\u2019 metabolic rates. Species with higher metabolic rates can supply more energy to support the relatively high cost of brain tissue. And yet, while body temperature is known to be a major determinant of metabolic rate, the possible effects of temperature on brain size have scarcely been explored. Thus, here I explore the effects of temperature on brain size among diverse vertebrates (fishes,amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals). I find that, after controlling for body size,brain size increases exponentially with temperature in much the same way asmetabolic rate. These results suggest that temperature-dependent changes in aerobic capacity, which have long been known to affect physical performance, similarly affect brain size. The observed temperature-dependence of brain size may explain observed gradients in brain size among both ectotherms and endotherms across broad spatial and temporal scales.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/155/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Florida']]
[u'Preliminary evidence of a new microbial species capable of sustainable intracellular survival and transfer in mammalian cell lines', ['Salwa Barkwan', 'Haroon Rasheed', 'Oladimejii Spoloso'], u'2014-01-21', u'The minimisation of exposure of mammalian cell lines to potential microbial contaminants is handled by routine adherence to quality laboratory procedures. Mycoplasma, are capable of sustainable intracellular existence, are not v isible in light microscopy and must be tested for using dedicated methods. Bacterial contamination is usually detectable by relatively simple optical, spectroscopy and pH methodology. Symbiont occupation assumes an evolved mutually beneficial relationship and does occur with many eukaryote-prokaryotes, but rarely mammals. Other, purely intracellular low density, low energy and relatively stable and non-visible bacterial occupation of mammalian cytoplasm, assumes the existence of new intra-genus relationships and associated mechanisms. In this study, preliminary microscopy and sequence data has been collated implying the presence of low density Cocci in the cytoplasm of hepatocyte lines with negligible impact on cell function and behaviour.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/209/', ['Biochemistry', 'Cell Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'BRI, Institute of Technology']]
[u'Can head louse repellents really work? Field studies of piperonal 2% spray', ['Ian F Burgess', 'Christine M Brown', 'Nazma A Burgess', 'Judith Kaufman'], u'2014-01-21', u'Background: Many families find regular checking of children\u2019s heads for head louse infestation too onerous and would prefer to be able to prevent infestation by use of a topical application that deters lice from infesting the head. Identification in the laboratory of a repellent activity for piperonal provided the basis for developing a spray product to repel lice.\nMethods: A proof of principle field study in Dhaka, Bangladesh, compared the effect of using 2% piperonal spray with that of a placebo in 105 children and adults from three communities with infestation levels close to 100%. All participants were treated for infestation and subsequent incidence of reinfestation monitored daily by investigators. A second randomised, controlled, double blind, study in North London, UK, evaluated the effect of the product in normal use. One hundred and sixty-three children from schools with a high level (20-25%) of infestation were treated and confirmed louse free and randomly divided between 2% piperonal, a placebo spray, and a control group for up to 22 weeks. Parents applied the spray and monitored for infestation. Regular investigator visits confirmed the parental monitoring and replenished supplies of spray.\nResults: In Dhaka, over 18 days there were only 4 infestations in the piperonal group and 8 in the placebo group. This difference was not significant (p = 0.312). In North London, there were 41 cases of infestation over the course of the study. Analysis of time to first infestation showed a non-significant (p = 0.4368) trend in favour of piperonal.\nConclusion: Routine use of 2% piperonal spray in communities with a high prevalence of head louse infestation may provide some protection from infestation. However, the difference between use of the product and no active intervention was sufficiently small that regular checking for presence of lice is likely to be a more practical and cost effective approach to prevention of infestation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/214/', ['Entomology', 'Dermatology', 'Pediatrics', 'Public Health'], [u'Medical Entomology Centre, Insect Research & Development Limited', u'Royalheath Charitable Trust Limited']]
[u'The reappraisal of Batson\u2019s theory by isolated para-vertebral metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma', ['Po-Chin Liang', 'Kai-Wen Huang'], u'2014-01-20', u'The extra-hepatic metastasis of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) usually hints late disease stage and poor prognosis. However, we treated 5 unusual HCC patients with isolated para-vertebral metastasis by tumor excision and the surgical result is satisfactory during 3.5 years follow-up in mean. To explain why the unusual situation of isolated metastasis of HCC occurred, an alternative spreading route of cancer cells bypass pulmonary circulation and avoid pulmonary vascular filtration, the Batson\u2019s plexus, was highly suspected. We supposed that isolated para-vetebral metastases seems not to mean a late disease stage, aggressive management made longer survival possible, and it was confirmed by our clinical experience.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/212/', ['Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Department of Medical Image, National Taiwan University Hospital', u'Department of Surgery, National Taiwan University']]
[u'Solution and crystal structures of a C-terminal fragment of the neuronal isoform of the polypyrimidine tract binding protein (nPTB)', ['Amar Joshi', 'Vicent Esteve', 'Adrian N Buckroyd', 'Markus Blatter', 'Frederic HT Allain', 'Stephen Curry'], u'2014-01-19', u'The eukaryotic polypyrimidine tract binding protein (PTB) serves primarily as a regulator of alternative splicing of messenger RNA, but is also co-opted to other roles such as RNA localisation and translation initiation from internal ribosome entry sites. The neuronal paralogue of PTB (nPTB) protein is 75% identical in amino acid sequence with PTB. Although the two proteins have broadly similar RNA binding specificities and effects on RNA splicing, differential expression of PTB and nPTB can lead to the generation of alternatively spliced mRNAs. RNA binding by PTB and nPTB is mediated by four RNA recognition motifs (RRMs). We present here the crystal and solution structures of the C-terminal domain of nPTB (nPTB34) which contains RRMs 3 and 4. As expected the structures are similar to each other and to the solution structure of the equivalent fragment from PTB (PTB34). The result confirms that, as found for PTB, RRMs 3 and 4 of nPTB interact with one another to form a stable unit that presents the RNA-binding surfaces of the component RRMs on opposing sides. The major differences between PTB34 and nPTB34 arise from amino acid side chain substitutions on the exposed \u03b2-sheet surfaces and adjoining loops of each RRM, which are likely to modulate interactions with RNA.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/211/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Leicester', u'CIBER-BBN, Dep. Quimica Fisica, Universitat de Valencia', u'Department of Biochemistry, University of Cambridge', u'Institute of Molecular Biology and Biophysics, ETH Z\xfcrich', u'Department of Life Sciences, Imperial College']]
[u'epcALGO: a home-grown algorithm for entire proteome comparison', ['Satish Kumar', 'Lingaraja Jena'], u'2014-01-19', u'Due to the advancement of bioinformatics and genome sequencing project, entire genome and proteome sequences of different organisms are available in the public domain. These vast data are repeatedly compared and explored to find out identical and similar sequence patterns. In this paper we employed NCBI\u2019s Standalone BLAST program for entire proteome comparison of any two strains / species and illustrate a simple algorithm for the same. The implementation of this epcALGO algorithm is to identify systematically conserved proteins that are missing in a given proteome and also identify proteins unique to a particular species. This algorithm is simple and quick to apply for revealing the species / strain variation among any two closely related species / strains by identifying identical and non-identical proteins in their proteomes and also identifying where there is mutation in the protein sequence. We implemented this algorithm for proteome comparison of two strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis H37Rv and H37Ra and elucidated the methodology for finding out their proteomic variation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/210/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'Bioinformatics & Biochemistry, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences', u'Bioinformatics Centre, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences', u'Department of Bioinformatics, JJT University']]
[u'Diarrhoea and acute respiratory infections among under-five children in slums: Evidence from India', ['Aditya Singh', 'Mahesh Nath Singh'], u'2014-01-19', u'Background: In the wake of burgeoning slum population, a substantial reduction in the prevalence of diarrhea and acute respiratory infections (ARI) is necessary for to achieve necessary reduction in child mortality in urban India. To achieve this, we need evidence based public health interventions and programs. However, a review of previous studies indicate that national level studies focused on slum population are very few. Therefore, the present study aims to study differentials and determinants of diarrhea and ARI in urban slums of India. Methodology: Using data obtained from the third round of National Family Health Survey conducted in 2005-06, we analyzed information on 2687 under-5 children living in urban slums located in eight selected India cities. Apart from bivariate analysis, logistic regression analysis was performed to identify factor associated with diarrhea and ARI among slum children. Results: The prevalence diarrhea and ARI is about 8% and 8.5%, respectively. Age, birth weight, access to safe water and improved toilet and region emerge as main factors affecting prevalence of diarrhea among slum children. Safe drinking water reduces the likelihood of getting diarrhea by about 19% compared to unsafe water [CI=0.563-1.151]. Children with normal birth are about 51% less likely to suffer from diarrhea compared to those with unknown birth weight [CI=0.368-0.814]. Older children are about 63% less likely to suffer from diarrhea [CI=0.274-0.502]. Children from Southern cities are about half as likely to have diarrhea as children from slums in Northern cities. ARI is associated with age, birth weight, religion, caste, education, family type, safe water, improved toilet, mass-media exposure, region and separate kitchen. Older children and children with normal birth weight are less likely to suffer from ARI. Children from \u2018Other\u2019 religions and OBC are 39% [CI=1.000-1.924] and 49% [CI=1.008-2.190], respectively, more likely to suffer from ARI. Parents\u2019 education is strongly associated with prevalence of ARI. Exposure to mass media reduces the likelihood of ARI to 50% compared to the situation when mother of the child did not have any exposure to mass-media [CI=0.324-0.819]. Non-flush toilet and lack of separate kitchen increase the likelihood of ARI. Children from slums located in Southern region are less likely to suffer from ARI. Conclusion: The findings call for dedicated programs and policies, in line with those already existing ones such as RAY, IHSDP, NUHM, ICDS and JNNURM, for the development of urban slums through provision of affordable housing, improved sanitation, safe water and clean fuel. Adequate nutrition to mothers and their children should be ensured and vulnerable groups identified in the analysis should be the focus of future public health intervention and strategies. The use of mass-media to change health behavior should also be considered.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/208/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Public Health', 'Respiratory Medicine'], [u'School of Health Sciences and Social Work, University of Portsmouth', u'Tata Institute of Social Sciences']]
[u'Liberating Our Beautiful Trees: A Call to Arms', ['Hilmar Lapp', 'Robert Guralnick', 'Mark W. Westneat'], u'2014-01-16', u'Visual media can captivate, fascinate, and inspire. Whether skillfully taken photographs or artfully crafted visual illustrations, visuals convey beauty in ways that words can\u2019t, and can tell even complex stories to audiences that might otherwise not listen. The story of biological evolution is highly complex and the subject of an enduring quest for better understanding. Yet it is also one of remarkable beauty, as given testimony by the numerous phylogenetic illustrations in publications that show in fascinating detail how traits, function, or morphology may have evolved along a tree. Despite their unique ability to make stories of evolutionary history understandable at a glance, and despite the considerable amount of skill, time, and creativity authors spend on making them, almost all of them end up buried in articles, undiscoverable on their own, locked away behind paywalls, copyrighted by the publisher rather than the creator, and unavailable for repurposing. Published as static images on printed pages or in PDFs on journal websites, they are non-interactive, and cannot be extended or improved by others. While many of these constraints may have been brought about by the limitations of printed journal issues, modern internet-based technologies offer little justification for perpetuating them. We suggest that a grass-roots community initiative uniting people with shared enthusiasm can redefine how we create, distribute, share, repurpose, and interact with the visual depictions of our primary phylogenetic knowledge. Imagine a world in which beautiful trees are archived in open digital repositories, discoverable through metadata specific to the illustration, and assigned digital identifiers that allow tracking their impact and reuse. Imagine if the art of phylogenetic trees used media formats amenable to collaboratively maintaining, modifying, and sharing them through the powerful mechanisms familiar from source code version control. Beautiful trees could become living, collaborative and interactive works of visual art that change as our knowledge evolves, and that pique curiosity in millions of people worldwide. Technologies abound to realize this vision; the main hurdle is changing the culture in how we treat this part of the scientific knowledge production enterprise.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/206/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Computational Science'], [u'National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent)', u'University of Colorado at Boulder', u'Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago']]
[u'Regulation of antimycin biosynthesis by the orphan ECF RNA polymerase sigma factor \u03c3AntA', ['Ryan F Seipke', 'Elaine Patrick', 'Matt I Hutchings'], u'2014-01-15', u'Antimycins are an extended family of depsipeptides that are made by filamentous actinomycete bacteria and were first isolated more than 60 years ago. Recently, antimycins have attracted renewed interest because of their activities against the anti-apoptotic machineries inside human cells which could make them promising anti-cancer compounds. The biosynthetic pathway for antimycins was recently characterised but very little is known about the organisation and regulation of the antimycin (ant) gene cluster. Here we report that the ant gene cluster in Streptomyces albus is organized into four transcriptional units; the antBA, antCDE, antGF and antHIJKLMNO operons. Unusually for secondary metabolite clusters, the antG and antH promoters are regulated by an extracytoplasmic function (ECF) RNA polymerase sigma factor named \u03c3AntA which represents a new sub-family of ECF \u03c3 factors that is only found in antimycin producing strains. We show that \u03c3AntA controls production of the unusual precursor 3-aminosalicylate which is absolutely required for the production of antimycins. \u03c3AntA is highly conserved in antimycin producing strains and the -10 and -35 elements at the \u03c3AntA regulated antG and antH promoters are also highly conserved suggesting a common mechanism of regulation. We also demonstrate that altering the C-terminal Ala-Ala residues found in all \u03c3AntA proteins to Asp-Asp increases expression of the antFG and antGHIJKLMNO operons and we speculate that this Ala-Ala motif may be a signal for the protease ClpXP.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/203/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biotechnology', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia', u'School of Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Leeds']]
[u'Impact of migration on child health in urban India: Evidence from NFHS-3', ['Raj Narayan', 'Aditya Singh'], u'2014-01-15', u'Using data from the third round of National Family Health Survey (NFHS, 2005-06), the present study examined the effect of quality of housing on the risk of anthropometric failure and child health status among migrant and non-migrant children in urban India. It is very urgent to from the policy and program perspective to understand whether source of safe drinking water, type of toilet facilities, and type of housing and cooking fuel really make a difference when it comes to the health and nutritional status of Indian children, particularly the urban poor. The main findings from the present studies indicate the poor nutritional and health status of migrant and non-migrant children in urban India. There were also large interstate disparities in anthropometric failures and ARI & diarrhea among migrant and non-migrant children across various Indian states. Result from the multivariate analysis suggest that poor source of sanitation facilities and poor quality of housing significantly raised the risk of stunting and diarrhea, whereas use of safe cooking fuel reduces the likelihood of ARI among children in urban India. However, we do not find any significant effect of quality of housing on the risk of underweight and wasting. Furthermore, few of the findings from the analysis appear in opposite directions that should be interpreted with caution which might be possible due to small sample size in few categories. Therefore, we need further in-depth research at micro-level to explore the plausible mechanism of how does housing quality influence child health and nutritional status in urban India.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/202/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Pediatrics', 'Public Health'], [u'Student, International Institute for Population Sciences', u'School of Health Sciences and Social Work, University of Portsmouth']]
[u'Schistosome tegumental ecto-apyrase (SmATPDase1) degrades exogenous pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic nucleotides.', ["Akram A Da'dara", 'Rita Bhardwaj', 'Yasser MB Ali', 'Patrick Skelly'], u'2014-01-14', u'Schistosomes are parasitic worms that can survive in the hostile environment of the human bloodstream where they appear refractory to both immune elimination and thrombus formation. We hypothesize that parasite migration in the bloodstream can stress the vascular endothelium causing this tissue to release chemicals alerting responsive host cells to the stress. Such chemicals are called damage associated molecular patterns (DAMPs) and among the most potent is the proinflammatory mediator, adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Furthermore, the ATP derivative ADP is a pro-thrombotic molecule that acts as a strong activator of platelets. Schistosomes are reported to possess at their host interactive tegumental surface a series of enzymes that could, like their homologs in mammals, degrade extracellular ATP and ADP. These are alkaline phosphatase (SmAP), phosphodiesterase (SmNPP-5) and ATP diphosphohydrolase (SmATPDase1). In this work we employ RNAi to knock down expression of the genes encoding these enzymes in the intravascular life stages of the parasite. We then compare the abilities of these parasites to degrade exogenously added ATP and ADP. . We find that only SmATPDase1-suppressed parasites are significantly impaired in their ability to degrade these nucleotides. Suppression of SmAP or SmNPP-5 does not appreciably affect the worms\u2019 ability to catabolize ATP or ADP. These findings are confirmed by the functional characterization of the enzymatically active, full-length recombinant SmATPDase1 expressed in CHO-S cells. The enzyme is a true apyrase; SmATPDase1 degrades ATP and ADP in a cation dependent manner. Optimal activity is seen at alkaline pH. The Km of SmATPDase1 for ATP is 0.4 \xb10.02 mM and for ADP, 0.252 \xb1 0.02 mM. The results confirm the role of tegumental SmATPDase1 in the degradation of the exogenous pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic nucleotides ATP and ADP by live intravascular stages of the parasite. By degrading host inflammatory signals like ATP, and pro-thrombotic signals like ADP, these parasite enzymes may minimize host immune responses, inhibit blood coagulation and promote schistosome survival.)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/201/', ['Biochemistry', 'Molecular Biology', 'Parasitology'], [u'Infectious Disease and Global Health, Tufts University']]
[u'Habitat-of-origin predicts degree of adaptation in urban tolerant birds', ['Lawrence E Conole'], u'2014-01-14', u'Urban exploiters and adapters are often coalesced under a term of convenience as \u2018urban tolerant\u2019. This useful but simplistic characterisation masks a more nuanced interplay between and within assemblages of birds that are more or less well adapted to a range of urban habitats. Furthermore, cues are generally sought in behavioural ecology and physiology for the degree to which particular bird species are predisposed to urban living. The data in this paper are focused on two assemblages characterised as urban exploiters and suburban adapters from Melbourne, Australia. This study departs from the approach taken in many others of similar kind in that urban bird assemblages that form the basis of the work were identified at the landscape scale and from direct data analyses rather than indirect inference. Further, this paper employs a paired, partitioned analysis of exploiter and adapter preferences for points along the urban-rural gradient that seeks to decompose the overall trend into diagnosable parts for each assemblage. In the present paper I test the hypotheses that the distinct urban exploiter and suburban adapter assemblages within the broad urban tolerant grouping in Melbourne vary in their responses within the larger group to predictor variables, and that the most explanatory predictor variables vary between the two assemblages. In the end, habitat-of-origin better predicts degree of adaptation amongst urban tolerant birds.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/156/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Ecology'], [u'School of Geography and Environmental Studies, University of Tasmania']]
[u'Examining the foundations of heterogeneity-based management for promoting plant diversity in a disturbance-prone ecosystem', ['Daniel J McGlinn', 'Michael W Palmer'], u'2014-01-13', u'The conservation of disturbance-prone ecosystems such as rangelands may depend on the spatial and temporal variation in the application of disturbances. Patch-burn management approaches attempt to increase overall landscape biodiversity by creating a mosaic of habitat patches using a patchy application of fire and grazing. Three fundamental assumptions underlay the patch-burn management approach: 1) fire and grazing drive spatial patch differentiation in community structure, 2) species composition of patches diverge through time in response to disturbance, 3) high spatio-temporal variation in fire and grazing results in high compositional variation and thus high landscape-scale diversity. We tested the first two assumptions of the patch-burn approach by comparing the importance of variation in management (changes in fire frequency and grazer species) relative to inherent sources of landscape heterogeneity at the Tallgrass Prairie Preserve in Osage Co., Oklahoma, USA. We sampled 150 square 100 m2 quadrats on a 1 x 1 km UTM grid. We randomly selected 20 of those quadrats to annually resample for 12-years. We recorded visual cover of all vascular plant species rooted within each quadrat. We used variation partitioning within multiple regression and direct ordination frameworks to estimate the relative contribution of classes of variables on species richness and composition respectively.\nOur results indicate that there was some support for the two assumptions underlying patch-burn management; however, independent spatial and temporal inherent landscape heterogeneity played a much larger role than management in shaping both plant richness and composition. The strength of inherent landscape heterogeneity on the plant community suggests that fine-tuning the application of fire and grazing is not critical for maintaining this community as long as fire and grazing remain part of the system. More generally, the effects of intrinsic spatiotemporal template on biodiversity may dominate even in disturbance-prone ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/200/', ['Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department of Biology, Utah State University', u'Department of Botany, Oklahoma State University']]
[u'Is visceral fat a better predictor of the incidence of impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus than subcutaneous abdominal fat: a systematic review and meta-analysis of cohort studies.', ['Ana Valeria B Castro', 'Vania S Nunes', 'Viorica Ionut', 'Richard N Bergman', 'Regina El Dib'], u'2014-01-13', u'BACKGROUND: Several lines of evidence show that abdominal fat is strongly associated with insulin resistance and dysglycemia (impaired glucose tolerance - IGT or type 2 diabetes mellitus - T2DM). However, which component of abdominal fat, subcutaneous or intra-abdominal, has a major impact on the development of insulin resistance and dysglycemia is still a matter of debate. The aim of this review is to summarize the best available evidence on the contribution of subcutaneous and/or intra-abdominal adipose tissues to the incidence of impaired glucose tolerance and/or type 2 diabetes mellitus, in adults as well as to determine which type of abdominal fat is a better predictor of these metabolic disorders. METHODS: A search of published articles on PUBMED (1966 to June 2013), EMBASE (1980 to June 2013), LILACS (1982 to June 2013) and Central Cochrane databases was conducted to identify studies evaluating the relationship between intra-abdominal and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue and the incident IGT or T2DM). Cohort studies examining the association between intra-abdominal and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue values and the prospective development of impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus (estimated risk) were included in this review. Data extraction and risk of bias assessments were performed in duplicate by 2 reviewers. Random-effects meta-analyses were performed to pool OR estimates from individual studies to assess the association between intra-abdominal and/or subcutaneous adipose tissue values at baseline and the risk of development of impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus. Statistical heterogeneity was assessed using the I2 statistics. The risk of bias was assessed by examining the sample selected, recruitment method, completeness of follow up and blinding according to the guidelines for assessing quality in prognostic studies proposed by Hayden (29) and the MOOSE (30) statement, and adapted by us. RESULTS: Five relevant studies were suitable for this review. The analysis showed that both VAT and abdominal SAT measurements at baseline were strong predictors of incident impaired glucose tolerance or type 2 diabetes mellitus, in minimally adjusted models. However, when other confounding variables besides age, sex and ethnicity were taken into account, VAT, but not SAT, measurements pose a high risk of the incident IGT or T2DM in a wide range of age and ethnic backgrounds (Japanese-, Hispanic-, African-Americans and Canadians). CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, the present results provide some evidence that VAT imposes more risk to the development of IGT and T2DM than abdominal SAT. However, more studies are necessary to confirm these results and to address the issue of changes in VAT and abdominal SAT and their predictive value regarding IGT and type 2 diabetes developments.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/199/', ['Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Internal Medicine', 'Metabolic Sciences'], [u'Medical School, Endocrinology Unit, Centro Universitario Barao de Maua', u'Internal Medicine Department, Endocrinology and Metabolism Unit, Ribeirao Preto Medical School, Sao Paulo University', u'Internal Medicine Department, Endocrinology and Metabolism Unit, Botucatu Medical School, UNESP', u'Diabetes and Obesity Research Institute, Cedars Sinai Medical Center', u'Anesthesiology Department/ Evidence-Based Medicine Unit, Botucatu Medical School - UNESP']]
[u'Lexical and morphosyntactic minimal pairs: Evidence for different processing and implications in language pathology treatment', ['Luca Cilibrasi', 'Vesna Stojanovik', 'Patricia M Riddell'], u'2014-01-12', u'Minimal pairs are defined as pair of words in a particular language which differ in only one phonological element and have a different meaning (Roach, 2000). Several authors argued their relevance in the treatment of phonological disorders (for instance, Barlow and Gierut, 2002). In this study we investigate the nature of minimal pairs showing that a subtype of them entails a peculiar form of processing. In many languages bound morphemes used to mark inflection generate minimal pairs. In English, the present third person singular morpheme -s and the past tense morpheme -ed generate in most cases minimal pairs, such as \u201casks / asked\u201d. Several authors (Stemberger and MacWhinney, 1986, Bertram et al, 2000) have argued that inflected forms may be stored in the lexicon as units, i.e. together with the bound morpheme. If inflected forms are stored as units in the lexicon, discriminating lexical minimal pairs and morphosyntactic minimal pairs should not be different processes. Elements should be stored similarly in the lexicon, and then compared phonologically when the subject is presented with a minimal pair. In this study we addressed this question presenting 20 monolingual native speakers of English with lexical and morphosyntactic minimal pairs (30 per condition, frequency differences not significant), and with pairs of identical words (leading, thus, to 120 trials). Participants were asked to press \u201cwhite\u201d if words were different and \u201cblack\u201d if words were identical. Conditions were matched on word length. Results show that subjects are significantly faster in discriminating words generating a lexical minimal pair, such as \u201cback / badge\u201d than words generating a morphosyntactic minimal pair, such as \u201casks / asked\u201d, t (19) = -4.486, p < .001. A third condition was also present to deepen our understanding of the processing of morphosyntactic minimal pairs. In this condition subjects were presented with morphosyntactic minimal pairs generated by very infrequent verbs. Unexpectedly, minimal pairs generated by infrequent verbs revealed to be faster recognised (19) = 2.120, p < .05 than the other morphosyntactic minimal pairs. Even if this may be interpreted as a consequence of attention arousal for unexpected stimuli, the result is problematic if we assume inflected forms to be stored in the lexicon as units. Together, these results suggest that inflected forms are not stored as units and that the discrimination of morphosyntactic minimal pairs relies on the discrimination of inflectional morphemes. As such, we suggest that increasing the sensibility to morphosyntactic minimal pairs in people with a morphosyntactic disorder, such as children with Specific Language Impairment (SLI), should improve their language performance.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/197/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Clinical Language Sciences, University of Reading', u'Psychology, University of Reading']]
[u'Use of rbcL sequences for DNA barcoding and authentication of plant drugs used in Traditional Chinese Medicine', ['Florian Herrmann', 'Michael Wink'], u'2014-01-12', u'Traditional Chinese medicine has become increasingly popular in Europe and North America.There is evidence that quality control in terms of species authentication is sometimes inappropriate. Repeated incidents of adulterations and wrong identification, some even with serious consequences have occurred recently. The necessity of a quality control for TCM drugs to avoid these incidents is given since many years. DNA barcoding was used in this study to authenticate drugs which are often used in Chinese herbal medicine. 37 plants from 28 families were identified using nucleotide sequences of the rbcL gene. Only one adulteration could be detected. Both the advantages and limitations of rbcL as a marker gene for identification were analysed and discussed. We could show that DNA barcoding is a valid and fast method to identify medicinal herbs, showing some advantages over chemical profiling because of its universal application even for unknown plant species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/196/', ['Genetics', 'Plant Science', 'Taxonomy', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University']]
[u'Species and size diversity in protective services offered by coral guard crabs', ['C. Seabird McKeon', 'Jenna M. Moore'], u'2014-01-10', u"Coral guard crabs in the genus Trapezia are well-documented defenders of their pocilloporid coral hosts against coral predators such as the Crown-of-Thorns seastar (Acanthaster planci complex). The objectives of this study were to examine the protective services of six species of Trapezia against corallivory, and the extent of functional diversity among these Trapezia species. Studies conducted in Mo'orea, French Polynesia showed the Trapezia \u2013 coral mutualism protected the host corals from multiple predators through functional diversity in the assemblage of crab symbionts. Species differed in their defensive efficacy, but species within similar size classes shared similar abilities. Smaller Trapezia species, which were previously thought to be ineffective guards, play important defensive roles against small corallivores. We also measured the benefits of this mutualism to nearby coral species in the midst of an Acanthaster outbreak that reduced the live coral cover on the fore reef to less than 4%. The mutualism positively affects the reef coral demography and potential for recovery during adverse predation events through shelter of multiple species of small corals near the host coral. Our results show that some Trapezia species may be functionally equivalent within the same size class, decreasing the threat of gaps in coral protection caused by absence or replacement of any single Trapezia species.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/195/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Smithsonian Marine Station, Smithsonian Institution', u'Florida Museum of Natural History, University of Florida']]
[u'Novel degradation pathway of 2-chloro-4-aminophenol in Arthrobacter sp. SPG', ['Pankaj K Arora', 'Alok Srivastava', 'Vijay Singh'], u'2014-01-10', u'A novel degradation pathway of 2-chloro-4-aminophenol (2C4AP) was studied in an Arthrobacter sp. SPG that utilized 2C4AP as a sole carbon and energy source. The 2C4AP degradation was initiated by a 2C4AP-deaminase that catalyzed the conversion of 2C4AP into chlorohydroquinone (CHQ) with removal of ammonium ion. In the next step, a CHQ-dehalogenase catalyzed the dehalogenation of CHQ to hydroquinone (HQ). The further degradation of HQ was proceeded with ring cleavage and the formation of \u03b3-hydroxymuconic semialdehyde. This is the first report of degradation of 2C4AP by any bacteria.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/194/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Biotechnology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Plant Science, MJP Rohilkhand University']]
[u'Strong Stackelberg Reasoning in Symmetric Games: An Experimental Replication and Extension', ['Briony D Pulford', 'Andrew M. Colman', 'Catherine L. Lawrence'], u'2014-01-06', u'In common interest games in which players are motivated to coordinate their strategies to achieve a jointly optimal outcome, orthodox game theory provides no general reason or justification for choosing the required strategies. In the simplest cases, where the optimal strategies are intuitively obvious, human decision makers generally coordinate without difficulty, but how they achieve this is poorly understood. Most theories seeking to explain strategic coordination have limited applicability, or require changes to the game specification, or introduce implausible assumptions or radical departures from fundamental game-theoretic assumptions. The theory of strong Stackelberg reasoning, according to which players choose strategies that would maximize their own payoffs if their co-players could invariably anticipate any strategy and respond with a best reply to it, avoids these problems and explains strategic coordination in all dyadic common interest games. Previous experimental evidence has provided evidence for strong Stackelberg reasoning in asymmetric games. Here we report evidence from two experiments consistent with players being influenced by strong Stackelberg reasoning in a wide variety of symmetric 3 \xd7 3 games but tending to revert to other choice criteria when strong Stackelberg reasoning generates small payoffs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/192/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'School of Psychology, University of Leicester', u'School of Psychology, Bangor University']]
[u'Association between osteoporosis and polymorphisms of the bone estrogen receptor 1, calcitonin receptor genes in Mongolian postmenopausal women', ['Unentsatsral Lkhagvasuren', 'Sarantuya Jav', 'Ochbadrakh Batjargal', 'Myagmarsuren Batsukh'], u'2014-01-06', u'In this study, we have investigated the association between osteoporosis and estrogen receptor 1 (ER1) 397 T>C, and calcitonin receptor (CALCR) 1340 T>C polymorphisms. Genomic DNA was obtained from 104 persons (52 osteoporotic and 52 healthy controls). Genomic DNA was extracted from EDTA-preserved peripheral venous blood of patients and controls and analyzed by PCR-RFLP. As a result, there was no statistically significant difference in the genotype and allele frequencies of patients and controls for ER1 397 T>C and CALCR 1340 T>C polymorphisms. ER1 CC and TC single nucleotides genotypes compared with TT genotypes was found more significantly women with osteoporosis [p=0.016; p=0.0046, OR=2.66; 0.44, 95% CI 1.185-5.988; 0.199-0.991)]. There was no statistically significant difference in the genotype and allele frequencies of patient and controls for ER1 combined nucleotides [p=0,148, OR=1.051, 95% CI (0.993\u20131.112)]. Our study showed that CALCR genes single and combined nucleotides genotypes were not significant women with osteoporotic and healthy postmenopausal women.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/191/', ['Genetics', 'Gynecology and Obstetrics'], [u'Obstetrics and Gynecology, Health Sciences University of Mongolia', u'Molecular Biology and Genetics, Health Sciences University of Mongolia']]
[u'libPLS: An Integrated Library for Partial Least Squares Regression and Discriminant Analysis', ['Hongdong Li', 'Qingsong Xu', 'Yizeng Liang'], u'2014-01-05', u'Partial least squares (PLS) have gained wide applications especially in chemometrics, metabolomics/metabonomics as well as bioinformatics. To our knowledge, an integrated PLS library that include not only basic PLS modeling algorithms but also advanced and/or recently developed methods on model assessment, outlier detection and variable selection is in lack. Here we present libPLS which provides an integrated platform for developing PLS regression and/or discriminant analysis (PLS-DA) models. This library is written in MATLAB and freely available at www.libpls.net.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/190/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science', 'Statistics'], [u'College of Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Central South University', u'School of Mathematics and Statistics, Central South University']]
[u'Upward nitrate transport by phytoplankton in oceanic waters: balancing nutrient budgets in oligotrophic seas', ['Tracy A Villareal', 'Cynthia H. Pilskaln', 'Joseph P. Montoya', 'Mark Dennett'], u'2014-01-03', u'In oceanic gyres, primary producers are numerically dominated by small (1-5 \xb5m diameter) pro- and eukaryotic cells that primarily utilize recycled nutrients produced by rapid grazing turnover in a highly efficient microbial loop. Continuous losses of nitrogen to depth by sinking, either as single cells, aggregates or fecal pellets, are balanced by both nitrate inputs at the base of the euphotic zone and nitrogen-fixation. This input of N (new nitrogen) to balance export losses (the biological pump) is a fundamental aspect of nitrogen cycling and central to understanding carbon fluxes in the ocean. In the Pacific Ocean, detailed nitrogen budgets at the time-series station HOT require upward transport of nitrate from the nutricline (80-100 m) into the surface layer (~0-40 m) to balance productivity and export needs. However, concentration gradients are negligible and cannot support the fluxes. Physical processes can inject nitrate into the base of the euphotic zone, but the mechanisms for transporting this nitrate into the surface layer across many 10s of m in highly stratified systems are unknown. In these seas, vertical migration by the very largest 102-103 \xb5m diameter) phytoplankton is common as a survival strategy to obtain nitrogen from sub-euphotic zone depths. This vertical migration is driven by buoyancy changes rather than by flagellated movement and can provide upward nitrogen transport as nitrate (mM concentrations) in the cells. However, the contribution of vertical migration to nitrate transport has been difficult to quantify over the required basin scales. In this study, we use towed optical systems and isotopic tracers to show that migrating diatom (Rhizosolenia) mats are widespread in the N. Pacific Ocean from 140\xb0W to 175\xb0E and together with other migrating phytoplankton (Ethmodiscus, Halosphaera, Pyrocystis, and solitary Rhizosolenia) can mediate time-averaged transport of N (235 \xb5mol N m-2 d-1) equivalent to eddy nitrate injections (242 \xb5mol NO3- m-2 d-1). This upward biotic transport can close nitrate budgets in the upper 250 m of the central Pacific Ocean and together with diazotrophy creates a surface zone where biological nutrient inputs rather than physical processes dominate the new N flux. In addition to these numerically rare large migrators, there is extensive evidence in the literature of ascending behavior in small phytoplankton that contributes to upward flux as well. Although passive downward movement has dominated models of phytoplankton flux, there is now sufficient evidence to require a rethinking of this paradigm. Quantifying these fluxes is a challenge for the future and requires a reexamination of individual phytoplankton sinking rates as well as methods for capturing and enumerating ascending phytoplankton in the sea.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/189/', ['Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Dept. of Marine Science, The University of Texas at Austin', u'School for Marine Science and Technology (SMAST), University of Massachusetts Dartmouth', u'School of Biology, EST Building, 311 Ferst Drive, Georgia Institute of Technology', u'Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution']]
[u'Should bread be targeted as a vector to reduce sodium intake in Morocco?', ['Abdelfettah Derouiche', 'Ali Jafri', 'Younes ElKardi', 'Mohammed Jabari', 'Rachida Habbal', 'Khalid El Attaoui', 'Mohamed Alami'], u'2014-01-03', u'Background: High blood pressure is a serious public health problem in Morocco; the national survey of cardiovascular risk factors in Morocco found a prevalence of 33.6% of people with high blood pressure (HBP) with a higher prevalence among women, also, the World Health Organization estimated the prevalence of HBP in 2008 at 41.2%. Our study aimed to evaluate the amount of salt provided by the consumption of bread, since it is a staple food, in daily food intake and compare it to the recommendations. This study aims to raise awareness about salt consumption and its impact in causing high blood pressure. Methods: We used the MOHR method to quantify sodium in bread samples from 80 professional bakeries in Casablanca. Results: Results showed that the average amount of salt used in the preparation of bread is 17.42 \xb1 1.28 g / kg, which is the equivalent of a daily intake of 8 to 9 g of salt through bread alone, and exceeds all recommendations. Conclusion: We can only recommend using it as a vector for the programme of awareness about salt over-consumption and its impact on raising the prevalence of hypertension.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/188/', ['Health Policy', 'Nutrition'], [u"Ben M'sik Faculty of Sciences, Universit\xe9 Hassan II Mohammedia Casablanca", u"Division d'hygi\xe8ne de Sidi Othmane", u'Service de Cardiologie, CHU Ibn Rochd', u'All With the Heart (non-profit)']]
[u'Impact of climate change and human activity on the runoff in the upper reaches of the Shiyang River, Northwest China', ['Peng Li', 'Jianhua Xu', 'Zhongsheng Chen', 'Benfu Zhao'], u'2014-01-02', u'Based on the hydrological and meteorological data of the upper reaches of Shiyang River basin in Northwest China from 1960 to 2009, this paper analyzed the change in runoff and its related climatic factors, and estimated the contribution of climate change and human activity to runoff change by using the moving T test, cumulative analysis of anomalies and multiple regression analysis. The results showed that temperature revealed a significant increasing trend, and potential evaporation capacity decreased significantly, while precipitation increased insignificantly in the past recent 50 years. Although there were three mutations in 1975, 1990 and 2002 respectively, runoff presented a slight decreasing trend in the whole period. The contributions of climate change and human activity to runoff change during the period of 1976-2009 were 45% and 55% respectively.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/187/', ['Environmental Sciences', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'The Research Center for East-West Cooperation in China, the Key Lab of GIScience of the Education Ministry PRC, East China Normal University']]
[u'Contribution of insect pollinators to crop yield and quality varies with agricultural intensification', ['Ignasi Bartomeus', 'Simon G Potts', 'Ingolf Steffan-Dewenter', 'Bernard E Vaissiere', 'Michal Woyciechowski', 'Kristin M Krewenka', 'Thomas Tscheulin', 'Stuart PM Roberts', 'Hajnalka Szentgyorgyi', 'Catrin Westphal', 'Riccardo Bommarco'], u'2013-12-31', u"Background. Up to 75 % of crop species benefit at least to some degree from animal pollination for fruit or seed set and yield. However, basic information on the level of pollinator dependence and pollinator contribution to yield is lacking for many crops. Even less is known about how insect pollination affects crop quality. Given that habitat loss and agricultural intensification are known to decrease pollinator richness and abundance, there is a need to assess the consequences for different components of crop production. Methods. We used pollination exclusion on flowers or inflorescences on a whole plant basis to assess the contribution of insect pollination to crop yield and quality in four flowering crops (spring oilseed rape, field bean, strawberry, and buckwheat) located in four regions of Europe. For each crop, we recorded abundance and species richness of flower visiting insects in ten fields located along a gradient from simple to heterogeneous landscapes. Results. Insect pollination enhanced average crop yield between 18 and 71% depending on the crop. Yield quality was also enhanced in most crops. For instance, oilseed rape had higher oil and lower chlorophyll contents when adequately pollinated, the proportion of empty seeds decreased in buckwheat, and strawberries' commercial grade improved; however, we did not find higher nitrogen content in open pollinated field beans. Complex landscapes had a higher overall species richness of wild pollinators across crops, but visitation rates were only higher in complex landscapes for some crops. On the contrary, the overall yield was consistently enhanced by higher visitation rates, but not by higher pollinator richness. Discussion. For the four crops in this study, there is clear benefit delivered by pollinators on yield quantity and/or quality, but it is not maximized under current agricultural intensification. Honeybees, the most abundant pollinator, might partially compensate the loss of wild pollinators in some areas, but our results suggest the need of landscape-scale actions to enhance wild pollinator populations.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/184/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Ecology, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences,', u'School of Agriculture, Policy and Development, University of Reading', u'Department of Animal Ecology and Tropical Biology, Biocentre, University of W\xfcrzburg', u'UR406 Abeilles & Environnement, INRA', u'Institute of Environmental Sciences, Jagiellonian University', u'Department of Crop Science, Agroecology, Georg-August-University', u'Department of Geography, University of the Aegean']]
[u'Screening level mixture risk assessment of pharmaceuticals in STP effluents', ['Thomas Backhaus', 'Maja Karlsson'], u'2013-12-31', u'We modeled the ecotoxicological risks of the pharmaceutical mixtures emitted from STP effluents into the environment. The classic mixture toxicity concept of Concentration Addition was used to calculate the total expected risk of the analytically determined mixtures, compare the expected impact of seven effluent streams and pinpoint the most sensitive group of species. The risk quotient of a single, randomly selected pharmaceutical is often more than a factor of 1 000 lower than the mixture risk, clearly indicating the need to systematically analyse the overall risk of all pharmaceuticals present. The MCR, which is the ratio between the most risky compound and the total mixture risk, varies between 1.2 and 4.2, depending on the actual scenario and species group under consideration. The mixture risk quotients, based on acute data and an assessment factor of 1 000, regularly exceed 1, indicating a potential risk for the environment, depending on the dilution in the recipient stream. The top 10 mixture components explain more than 95% of the mixture risk in all cases. A mixture toxicity assessment cannot go beyond the underlying single substance data. The lack of data on the chronic toxicity of most pharmaceuticals as well as the very few data available for in vivo fish toxicity has to be regarded as a major knowledge gap in this context. On the other hand, ignoring Independent Action or even using the sum of individual risk quotients as a rough approximation of Concentration Addition does not have a major impact on the final risk estimate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/12/', ['Environmental Sciences'], [u'Department for Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Gothenburg', u'Swedish Chemicals Inspectorate']]
[u'Adult neurobehavioral outcome of hyperbilirubinemia in full term neonates \u2013 a 30 year prospective follow-up study', ['Laura Hokkanen', 'Jyrki Launes', 'Katarina Michelsson'], u'2013-12-30', u'Background. Neonatal hyperbilirubinemia (HB) may cause severe neurological damage, but serious consequences are effectively controlled by phototherapy and blood exchange transfusion. HB is still a serious health problem in economically compromised parts of the world. The long term outcome has been regarded favorable based on epidemiological data, but has not been confirmed in prospective follow-up studies extending to adulthood.Methods. We studied the long term consequences of HB in a prospective birth cohort of 128 HB cases and 82 controls. The cases are part of a neonatal at-risk cohort (n=1196) that has been followed up to 30 years of age. HB cases were newborns \u2265 2500 g birth weight and \u2265 37 weeks of gestation who had bilirubin concentrations > 340\xb5mol/l or required blood exchange transfusion. Subjects with HB were divided into subgroups based on the presence (affected HB) or absence (unaffected HB) of diagnosed neurobehavioral disorders in childhood, and compared with healthy controls. Subjects were seen at discharge, 5, 9 and 16 years of life and parent\u2019s and teacher\u2019s assessments were recorded. At 30 years they filled a questionnaire about academic and occupational achievement, life satisfaction, somatic and psychiatric symptoms including a ADHD self-rating score. Cognitive functioning was tested using ITPA, WISC, and reading and writing tests at 9 years of life. Results. Compared to controls, the odds for a child with HB having neurobehavioral symptoms at 9 years was elevated (OR=4.68). Fortyfive per cent of the HB group were affected by cognitive abnormalities in childhood and continued to experience problems in adulthood. This was apparent in academic achievement (p<0.0001) and the ability to complete secondary (p<0.0001) and tertiary (p<0.004) education. Also, the subgroup of affected HB reported persisting cognitive complaints e.g. problems with reading, writing and mathematics. Childhood symptoms of hyperactivity/impulsivity (p<0.0001) and inattention (p<0.02) were more common in HB groups, but in adulthood the symptoms were equal. The affected HB had lower scores in parameters reflecting life satisfaction, less controlled drinking, but not increased substance abuse. Discussion. Our results indicate that neonatal HB has negative consequences in adult age. A prospectively collected cohort with strict inclusion criteria enables to control most of the bias factors involved with retrospective data. The control and HB groups were remarkably similar at birth in terms of medical data, and the growth environment of the children, as well as the parents\u2019 social groups, education, size of family, type of housing at birth and at 9 years of age. Our findings bear resemblance to disorders of the fronto-striatal network, and also symptoms of the ADHD spectrum were frequent in the HB group suggesting a link of HB to other neurodevelopmental disorders.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/183/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Neurology', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Institute of Behavioural Sciences, University of Helsinki']]
[u'Banggai cardinalfish (Pterapogon kauderni) populations (stocks) around Banggai Island, a geometric and classical morphometric approach', ['Samliok Ndobe', 'Abigail Moore'], u'2013-12-30', u'Background. The identification and characterisation of appropriate management units (stocks) is important as a basis for responsible fisheries management as well as conservation of within species biodiversity. The Banggai cardinalfish Pterapogon kauderni (F.P. Koumans,1933), a mouthbrooding apogonid with Endangered status (IUCN Red List) has been shown to have a high level of genetic population structure across the endemic distribution in the Banggai Archipelago. With a life-cycle making recovery frrm extirpation extremely unlikely, this indicates a need to conserve each reproductively isolated population (stock), in particular to support zonation of Banggai Island in the context of the proposed district marine protected area. Genetic and morphological variations are often but not always related, and ideally both should be used in stock identification. However there were no data on classical or geometric morphometric characteristics of P. kauderni populations. Methods. Adult P. kauderni for classical and geometric morphometric analyses were collected randomly at six sites on Banggai Island (31-34 adult fish/site, total 193). Eleven morphometric parameters were measured and 10 dimensionless ratios were compared using the ANOVA function in Microsoft Excel 2007. A landmark set for P. kauderni was developed. Each specimen was photographed, digitised (tps.dig and tps.util). Characteristics of the six populations were analysed using Canonical Variate Analysis (CVA) and Discriminant Function Analysis (DFA) in MorphoJ geometric morphometric software to identify significant between-site variation. The results were compared with genetic, geophysical, bio-ecological and socio-economic data to determine meaningful stocks or management units. Results. Except for one site pair (Monsongan and Tinakin Laut) we found significant or highly significant differences between sites (sub-populations) in morphometric characteristics, as well as from the CVA and DFA results. The greatest morphometric difference was between sub-populations at the north (Popisi) and southeast (Matanga) extremities of the Banggai Island P. kauderni distribution. The Popisi population was characterised by short/high head shape, Matanga by a more hydrodynamic shape (elongated with a more pointed head). The findings were consonant with genetic study results. We propose a population model with four closed populations and one metapopulation resulting in five P. kauderni stocks around Banggai Island. Discussion. Observed patterns of morphometric variation could be related to geographical spread (radiation or North-South gradient), habitat-driven selection or growth patterns, stochastic events, or a combination. Such fine-scale characterisation calls for intra-species conservation, with implications for the management of this restricted range ornamental fish around Banggai Island and throughout the P. kauderni endemic distribution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/182/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Faculty of Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Tadulako University', u'Fisheries and Marine Science, Sekolah Tinggi Perikanan dan Kelautan']]
[u'Absence of Helicobacter pylori is not protective against peptic ulcer bleeding in elderly on offending agents: lessons from an exceptionally low prevalence population', ['Yeong Yeh Lee', 'Nordin Noridah', 'Syed Abdul Aziz Syed Hassan', 'Jayaram Menon'], u'2013-12-30', u'Aim Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection is exceptionally rare in population from the north-eastern region of Peninsular Malaysia. This provides us an opportunity to contemplate the future without H. pylori in acute non-variceal upper gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding.Methods All prospective cases in the GI database registry with GI bleeding between 2003 and 2006 were reviewed. Cases with confirmed non-variceal aetiology were analysed. Rockall score > 5 was considered high risk for bleeding and primary outcomes studied were in-hospital mortality, recurrent bleeding and need for surgery. Results The incidence of non-variceal upper GI bleeding was 2.2/100,000 person-years. Peptic ulcer bleeding was the most common aetiology (1.8/100,000 person-years). In-hospital mortality (3.6%), recurrent bleeding (9.6%) and need for surgery (4.0%) were uncommon in this population with a largely low risk score (85.2% with score \u2264 5). Elderly were at greater risk for bleeding (mean 68.5 years, P = 0.01) especially in the presence of duodenal ulcers (P = 0.04) despite gastric ulcers being more common. NSAIDs (34%) and aspirin (22.8%) were the main risk factors. Conclusions The absence of H. pylori infection may not reduce the risk of peptic ulcer bleeding in the presence of risk factors especially offending drugs in the elderly.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/180/', ['Epidemiology', 'Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Internal Medicine'], [u'School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia', u'School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia', u'Department of Medicine, Queen Elizabeth Hospital']]
[u'A low-cost auditory multi-class brain-computer interface based on pitch, spatial and timbre cues', ['Zacharias Vamvakousis', 'Rafael Ramirez'], u'2013-12-29', u'P300-based brain-computer interfaces (BCIs) are especially useful for people with illnesses, which prevent them from communicating in a normal way (e.g. brain or spinal cord injury). However, most of the existing P300-based BCI systems use visual stimulation which may not be suitable for patients with sight deterioration (e.g. patients suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis). Moreover, P300-based BCI systems rely on expensive equipment, which greatly limits their use outside the clinical environment. Therefore, we propose a multi-class BCI system based solely on auditory stimuli, which makes use of low-cost EEG technology. We explored different combinations of timbre, pitch and spatial auditory stimuli (TimPiSp: timbre-pitch-spatial, TimSp: timbre-spatial, and Timb: timbre-only) and three inter-stimulus intervals (150ms, 175ms and 300ms), and evaluated our system by conducting an oddball task on 7 healthy subjects. This is the first study in which these 3 auditory cues are compared. After averaging several repetitions in the 175ms inter-stimulus interval, we obtained average selection accuracies of 97.14%, 91.43%, and 88.57% for modalities TimPiSp, TimSp, and Timb, respectively. Best subject\u2019s accuracy was 100% in all modalities and inter-stimulus intervals. Average information transfer rate for the 150ms inter-stimulus interval in the TimPiSp modality was 14.85 bits/min. Best subject\u2019s information transfer rate was 39.96 bits/min for 175ms Timbre condition. Based on the TimPiSp modality, an auditory P300 speller was implemented and evaluated by asking users to type a 12-characters-long phrase. Six out of 7 users completed the task. The average spelling speed was 0.56 chars/min and best subject\u2019s performance was 0.84 chars/min. The obtained results show that the proposed auditory BCI is successful with healthy subjects and may constitute the basis for future implementations of more practical and affordable auditory P300-based BCI systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/179/', ['Computational Science', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Music Technology Group, Universitat Pompeu Fabra', u'Department of Information and Communication Technologies, Universitat Pompeu Fabra']]
[u'Lack of quantitative training among early-career ecologists: a survey of the problem and potential solutions', ['Frederic Barraquand', 'Thomas H G Ezard', 'Peter S Joergensen', 'Naupaka Zimmerman', 'Scott A Chamberlain', 'Roberto Salguero-Gomez', 'Timothy J Curran', 'Timothee Poisot'], u'2013-12-28', u'Proficiency in mathematics and statistics is essential to modern ecological science, yet few studies have assessed the level of quantitative training received by ecologists. To do so, we conducted an online survey. The 937 respondents were mostly early-career scientists who studied biology as undergraduates. We found a clear self-perceived lack of quantitative training: 75% were not satisfied with their understanding of mathematical models; 75% felt that the level of mathematics was \u201ctoo low\u201d in their ecology classes; 90% wanted more mathematics classes for ecologists; and 95% more statistics classes. Respondents thought that 30% of classes in ecology-related degrees should be focused on quantitative disciplines, which is likely higher than for most existing programs. The main suggestion to improve quantitative training was to relate theoretical and statistical modeling to applied ecological problems. Improving quantitative training will require dedicated, quantitative classes for ecology-related degrees that contain good mathematical and statistical practice.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/53/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Science and Medical Education', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Arctic and Marine Biology, University of Troms\xf8', u'Centre for Biological Sciences, University of Southampton', u'Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate, Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Biology, Stanford University', u'Biology Department, Simon Fraser University', u'Evolutionary Biodemography Laboratory, Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Queensland', u'Department of Ecology, Lincoln University', u'D\xe9partement de biologie, chimie et g\xe9ographie, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Rimouski (UQAR)', u'Qu\xe9bec Centre for Biodiversity Sciences, McGill University']]
[u'Oral health status among long-term hospitalized adults: A cross sectional study.', ['Leon Bilder', 'Nirit Yavnai', 'Avi Zini'], u'2013-12-28', u'Background: Many Long-Term Care (LTC) patients suffer from dental neglect due to difficulties in achieving appropriate dental professional care; although oral health has important influence on the quality of life among them. Dental care of the long term institutionalized adults is often limited to emergency and first aid care and there is insufficient data regarding oral health status in this population.Objectives: To describe the oral health status of the long-term hospitalized adults. Materials and methods: A cross-sectional study including clinical oral examinations was carried out among institutionalized LTC patients aged 18 and older in a geriatric - psychiatric Hospital in Israel. Main outcome measures were: edentulousness, presence of dentures, mucosal findings, number of teeth, number of functional teeth, level of dental hygiene and, dental caries. Results: Subjects\u2019 mean age was 65 years; 31.3% of the patients were edentulous, and only 14% had partial or full dentures. Only 17.2% were caries free. Females had significantly higher number of caries cavitation than men (p=0.044). The number of caries cavitation was higher among patients with higher plaque scores (p<0.001) and when taking Clonex (p=0.018). Number of residual teeth in mouth was higher in the low plaque score group (p<0.001). Carious teeth percentage was higher among the high plaque score group (p<0.001)', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/178/', ['Dentistry', 'Epidemiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Health Policy', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Periodontology, School of Graduate Dentistry, Rambam Health Care Campus', u'Medical Corps, IDF, Medical Corps, IDF', u'Department of Community Dentistry,Hadassah School of Dental Medicine, Hebrew University']]
[u'The role of transcriptional regulation in maintaining the availability of mycobacterial adenylate cyclases', ['Sarah J Casey', 'Mica J Ford', 'Michaela Gazdik'], u'2013-12-27', u'Mycobacterium species have a complex cAMP regulatory network indicated by the high number of adenylate cyclases annotated in their genomes. However the need for a high level of redundancy in adenylate cyclase genes remains unknown. We have used semiquantitiative RT-PCR to examine the expression of the eight Mycobacterium smegmatis cyclases with orthologs in the human pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis, where cAMP has recently been shown to be important for virulence. All eight cyclases were transcribed in the cell in all environments tested, and only four demonstrated environmental-mediated changes in transcription. M. smegmatis genes MSMEG_0545 and MSMEG_4279 were upregulated during starvation conditions while MSMEG_0545 and MSMEG_4924 were downregulated in H2O2 and MSMEG_3780 was downregulated in low pH. Promoter fusion constructs containing M. tuberculosis H37Rv promoters showed consistent regulation compared to their M. smegmatis orthologs. Overall our findings indicate that while low levels of transcriptional regulation occur, regulation at the mRNA level does not play a major role in controlling cellular cyclase availability in a given environment.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/177/', ['Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Department of Biomedical Sciences and Pathobiology, VA-MD Regional College of Veterinary Medicine', u'Biology Department, Ferrum College']]
[u'The sea urchin \u2013 the ultimate herbivore and biogeographic variability in its ability to deforest kelp ecosystems', ['Jarrett E Byrnes', 'Ladd E. Johnson', 'Sean D. Connell', 'Nick T. Shears', 'Selena M McMillan', 'Andrew Irving', 'Alejandro H. Buschmann', 'Michael H. Graham', 'Brian P. Kinlan'], u'2013-12-27', u'Barren rocky seafloor landscapes, denuded of almost all life by ravenous sea urchins, liberated from their predators, stands as one of the iconic images of trophic cascades in Ecology. While this paradigm has been cited in nearly every temperate rocky reef ecosystem across the globe, there is widespread disagreement as to its generality. Given their biology, sea urchins are clearly one of the ocean\u2019s strongest herbivores in many systems, but where will their impact be strongest? Here we perform a global meta-analysis of sea urchin-kelp relationships in the field. We find that sea urchins appear to be able to control kelp abundances in any system where they can achieve high densities. Furthermore, their ability to create large-scale long-lasting barrens appears to be limited to biogeographic regions where they can achieve high consumptive potential. Based on the literature, we outline a conceptual model that examines when and where sea urchins should be able to have a strong regulating impact on kelp forest ecosystems. We suggest that many elements of global change may shift the balance of forces regulating sea urchin consumptive potential in these ecosystems. Given their ability to have strong impacts on temperate rocky reefs, these drivers need to be considered in concert with their effect on sea urchins when attempting to predict future change to marine ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/174/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Biology Department, University of Massachusetts Boston', u'Lavan University', u'School of Earth & Environmental Sciences, University of Adelaide', u'Department of Statistics, University of Auckland', u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Auckland', u'Centro i-mar, Universidad de Los Lagos', u'Moss Landing Marine Laboratories', u'Biogeography Branch, NOAA National Ocean Service']]
[u'\xadGeometric morphometric analysis of snout shape in extant ruminants (Ungulata, Artiodactyla)', ['Jonathan P. Tennant', 'Norman MacLeod'], u'2013-12-27', u'Snout shape is a prominent aspect of herbivore feeding ecology, controlling both forage selectivity and intake rate. Many previous investigations have suggested that ruminant feeding classes can be discriminated via snout shape, with grazing and browsing species attributed \u2018blunt\u2019 and \u2018pointed\u2019 snouts respectively, with an intermediate sub-grouping. This aspect of functional ecology is analysed for the first time using a statistically rigorous geometry-based framework to compare the two-dimensional profiles of the premaxilla in ventral aspect for a large sample of ruminant species. Our results suggest that, when a sample of browsing and grazing ruminants are classified ecologically based on a range of independent indicators of their feeding strategy, they cannot be fully discriminated on the basis of their premaxilla profile shape. Instead, our sample forms a shape variation continuum with overlap between groupings, but with a 78 percent chance of successful categorisation. Moreover, previously used terminology such as \u2018pointed\u2019 and \u2018blunt\u2019 are largely inadequate for delimiting snout shape varieties, insofar as these terms lack the descriptive power to define the morphological disparity demonstrated. These results suggest that previous attempts to use snout shape as a proxy for feeding style in ruminants may have been biased due to under-sampling of this highly diverse group and to lack of geometric rigour in the assessment of shape data. Alternatively, conflicting or inadequate evidence in defining \u2018browsers\u2019 and \u2018grazers\u2019 could have caused incorrect assignment to ecological groups, distorting our analyses. The relation between snout shape and body mass are also documented.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/176/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Earth Science and Engineering, Imperial College London', u'Palaeontology Department, The Natural History Museum']]
[u'The Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale: utility and reliability in college students with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder', ['Sarah Gray', 'Steven Woltering', 'Karizma Mawjee', 'Rosemary Tannock'], u'2013-12-24', u'Background. Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder is a debilitating condition that often persists into adulthood. The past number of decades an increased number of adults with ADHD have gained entrance into the post-secondary education section and register with college or university Disability Service Offices. There is a need to explore utility of affordable materials to gain confidence in validating the original diagnoses and potentially detect feigning. Methods. 135 college students (mean age = 24, 42% males) with ADHD were recruited from post-secondary institutions. The freely available Adult ADHD Self-Report Scale (ASRS) self-report was utilized to assess current ADHD symptomatology. The ASRS was compared to an interview (over the phone) and other-report version (filled out by a significant other) that were directly derived from the original Self-report. Results. Results showed moderate levels of congruency between ASRS-Self and Other Report (correlation = .47). Furthermore, a robust relationship was shown between the ASRS-Self and the interview version (correlation = .66). Discussion. Current findings suggest the telephone-interview version of the ASRS may be an easy-to-use, reliable, and cost-effective supplement in gaining more confidence in determining ADHD in post-secondary education students. More research is required specifically testing its merits to detect feigning or support in diagnosis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/173/', ['Pathology', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public Health'], [u'Applied Psychology and Human Development, University of Toronto']]
[u'Maternal satisfaction about childhood immunization in primary health care center, Egypt', ['Hanan Abbas Abdo'], u'2013-12-23', u"Background: Childhood immunization is the most effective preventive services, and is critical to monitor and evaluate. A study reported an association between parental satisfactions with pediatric care and up-to-date immunization at 24 months independent of maternal age, race, and education. In addition to promoting utilization, satisfaction may increase involvement in the health care process. Health system factors included inconvenient clinic hours, dates or locations, waiting lines, and conflicting information. The inconvenience of clinic hours dates of immunization clinics, and locations of clinics were reported by 75% of parents. Objectives of the study: to determine the relationship between maternal knowledge about vaccination and satisfaction about vaccination program. Methods: A cross section study was conducted on three hundred and thirty five mothers chosen from PHCC participating in the study by providing information on satisfaction about the program and their knowledge about vaccination. Result: Inappropriate knowledge was reported by most of mothers (84.8%). Moreover, 95.2% of mothers were satisfied with childhood immunization services in primary healthcare center. Conclusion: The study shows that there was no statistically significant relation between maternal satisfaction with childhood immunization services and knowledge score, priorities from client's perspectives are changing, so on- going monitoring of client satisfaction is the cornerstone to improve quality of care.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/171/', ['Epidemiology', 'Public Health'], [u'Family Medicine Department, Suez Canal University']]
[u'When is an ecological network complex? Connectance drives degree distribution and emerging network properties', ['Timothee Poisot', 'Dominique Gravel'], u'2013-12-23', u'Connectance and degree distributions are important components of the structure of ecological networks. In this contribution, we use a statistical argument and simple network generating models to show that properties of the degree distribution are driven by network connectance. We discuss the consequences of this finding for (1) the generation of random networks in null-model analyses, and (2) the interpretation of network structure and ecosystem properties in relationship with degree distribution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/50/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Computational Science', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biology, Universit\xe9 du Qu\xe9bec \xe0 Rimouski', u'Qu\xe9bec Centre for Biodiversity Sciences']]
[u'Asymmetric connectivity of spawning aggregations of a commercially important marine fish using a multidisciplinary approach', ['Adrian Munguia-Vega', 'Brad Erisman', 'Alexis Jackson', 'Silvio Guido Marinone', 'Marcia Moreno-Baez', 'Alfredo Giron', 'Tad Pfister', 'Octavio Aburto-Oropeza', 'Jorge Torre'], u'2013-12-23', u'Understanding patterns of larval dispersal is key in determining whether no-take marine reserves are self-sustaining, what will be protected inside reserves and where the benefits of reserves will be observed. However, explicitly incorporating dispersal data into designing reserves for fisheries and conservation is still uncommon in many places around the world. We followed a multidisciplinary approach that merged detailed descriptions of fishing zones and spawning time at 17 sites distributed in the Midriff Island region of the Gulf of California (GC) with a biophysical oceanographic model that simulated larval transport at Pelagic Larval Duration (PLD) 14, 21 and 28 days for the most common and targeted predatory reef fish (leopard grouper Mycteroperca rosacea). M. rosacea is endemic to the GC and considered \u2018Vulnerable\u2019 according to World Conservation Union. We described metapopulation dynamics using graph theory and employed empirical sequence data from a subset of 10 sites at two mitochondrial genes to verify the model predictions. Our approach made sense of seemingly chaotic patterns of genetic diversity and structure, and provided a mechanistic explanation of the location of fishing zones. Most of the connectivity patterns observed were strictly asymmetric, except for a small region in the Southeast. The best-supported gene flow model confirmed a pulse of larvae from the Baja Peninsula, across the GC and northward up the Sonoran coastline, in agreement with the cyclonic gyre present at the peak of spawning (May). We found support that genetic diversity increased in sink sites that concentrated larvae from many sources at the time of larval flexion (PLD 14 days), while diversity decreased at important gateways identified at PLD 28 days with high betweenness centrality that are key for multigenerational dispersal and population resilience. Heavily targeted fished areas seem to be sustained by high levels of local retention, contribution of larvae from upstream sites and oceanographic patterns that concentrate larval density from all over the region. The general asymmetry in marine connectivity observed highlights that benefits from reserves are biased towards particular directions, that no-take areas need to be located upstream of targeted fishing zones, and that some fishing localities might not directly benefit from avoiding fishing within reserves located adjacent to their communities. We discuss the implications of marine connectivity for the current network of marine protected areas and no-take zones, and identify ways of improving it.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/170/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Conservation Genetics Laboratory, School of Natural Resources and the Environment, The University of Arizona', u'Comunidad y Biodiversidad A. C.', u'Marine Biology Research Division, Scripps Institution of Oceanography, University of California', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California Santa Cruz', u'Departamento de Oceanograf\xeda F\xedsica, Centro de Investigaci\xf3n Cient\xedfica y de Educaci\xf3n Superior de Ensenada', u'Universidad Aut\xf3noma de Baja California', u'School of Natural Resources ant the Environment, Center for Latin American Studies, The University of Arizona']]
[u'A phylogenomic view of ecological specialization in the Lachnospiraceae, a family of digestive tract-associated bacteria', ['Conor J. Meehan', 'Robert G Beiko'], u'2013-12-23', u'Several bacterial families are known to be highly abundant within the human microbiome, but their ecological roles and evolutionary histories have yet to be investigated in depth. One such family, Lachnospiraceae (phylum Firmicutes, class Clostridia) is abundant in the digestive tracts of many mammals and relatively rare elsewhere. Members of this family have been linked to obesity and protection from colon cancer in humans, mainly due to the association of this group with the production of butyric acid, a substance that is important for both microbial and host epithelial cell growth. We examined the genomes of 30 Lachnospiraceae isolates to better understand the phylogenetic relationships and basis of ecological differentiation within this group. Although this family is often used as an indicator of butyric acid production, fewer than half of the examined genomes contained genes from either of the known pathways that produce butyrate, with the distribution of this function likely arising in part from lateral gene transfer. An investigation of environment-specific functional signatures indicated that human gut-associated Lachnospiraceae possessed genes for endospore formation while other members of this family lacked key sporulation-associated genes, an observation supported by analysis of metagenomes from the human gut, oral cavity and bovine rumen. Our analysis demonstrates that despite a lack of agreement between Lachnospiraceae phylogeny and assigned habitat there are several examples of genetic signatures of habitat preference derived from both lateral gene transfer and gene loss.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/168/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Ecology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Dalhousie University', u'Faculty of Computer Science, Dalhousie University']]
[u'Peruvians\u2019 sleep duration: analysis of a population-based survey on adolescents and adults', ['Rodrigo M. Carrillo-Larco', 'Antonio Bernabe-Ortiz', 'J. Jaime Miranda', 'Jorge Rey de Castro'], u'2013-12-21', u'Sleep duration, either short or long, has been associated with diseases such as obesity, type-2 diabetes and cardiovascular diseases. Characterizing the prevalence and patterns of sleep duration at the population-level, especially in resource-constrained settings, will provide informative evidence on a potentially modifiable risk factor. The aim of this study was to explore the patterns of sleep duration in the Peruvian adult and adolescent population, together with its socio-demographic profile. This is a cross-sectional study, secondary analysis of the Use of Time National Survey conducted in 2010. Weighted means and proportions were used to describe sleep duration according to socio-demographic variables. Poisson regressions, taking into account the multistage sampling design of the survey, were used to calculate crude and adjusted prevalence ratios (PR) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). Main outcomes were short- (<6 hours) and long-sleep duration (\u22659 hours). A total of 12,424 observations, mean age 35.8 years (SD \xb117.7), 50.6% males, were included in the analysis. On average, Peruvians slept 7.7 hours (95% CI 7.4-8.0) on weekdays and 8.0 hours (95% CI 7.8-8.1) during weekends. The proportions of short- and long-sleep, during weekdays, were 4.3% (95% CI 2.9%-6.3%) and 22.4% (95% CI 14.9%-32.1%), respectively. Regarding urban and rural areas, a much higher proportion of short-sleep was observed in the former. On the multivariable analysis, compared to regular-sleepers (\u22656 to <9 hours), short-sleepers were twice more likely to be older and to have higher educational status, and 50% more likely to be currently employed. Similarly, relative to regular-sleep, long-sleepers were more likely to have a lower socioeconomic status as per educational attainment. In this nationally representative sample, the sociodemographic profile of short-sleep contrasts the long-sleep. These scenarios in Peru, as depicted by sleeping duration, differ from patterns reported in other high-income settings and could serve as the basis to inform and to improve sleep habits in the population.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/166/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Public Health'], [u'CRONICAS Center of Excellence in Chronic Diseases, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia', u'Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia', u'School of Medicine, Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia', u'Grupo de Investigaci\xf3n en Sue\xf1o (GIS)']]
[u'Using a pacifier to decrease sudden infant death syndrome: An emergency department educational intervention', ['Paul Walsh', 'Teri Veith', 'Carolina Rodriguez', 'Rogelio Molina', 'Nicole Lona', 'Emnet Habebo', 'Enrique Caldera', 'Cynthia Garcia', 'Gregory Veazy'], u'2013-12-21', u'Background: Pacifier use decreases the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). An emergency department (ED) visit may provide an opportunistic \u2018teachable moment\u2019 for parents. Objectives: To test the hypotheses (1) that caregivers were less familiar with the role of pacifiers in sudden infant death (SIDS) prevention than other recommendations, and (2) that an ED educational intervention would increase pacifier use in infants younger than six months, and (3) that otitis media would not occur more frequently in pacifier users. Methods: An intervention-group-only longitudinal study in a county hospital ED. We measured pacifier use infants and baseline knowledge of SIDs prevention recommendations in caregivers. We followed up three months later to determine pacifier use, and 12 months later to determine episodes of otitis media. Results: We analyzed data for 780 infants. Parents knew of advice against co-sleeping in 469/780 (60%), smoking in 660/776 (85%), and prone sleeping in 613/780 (79%). Only 268/777 (35%) knew the recommendation to offer a pacifier at bedtime. At enrollment 449/780 (58%) did not use a pacifier. Of 210/338 infants aged less than 6 months followed up 41/112 (37%) non-users had started using a pacifier at bedtime (NNT 3). Over the same period, 37/98 (38%) users had discontinued their pacifier. Otitis media did not differ between users and non-users at 12 months. Conclusion: Caregiver knowledge of the role of pacifiers in SIDS prevention was less than for other recommendations. Our educational intervention appeared to increase pacifier use. Pacifier use was not associated with increased otitis media.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/167/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Pediatrics'], [u'Department of Emergency Medicine, UC Davis', u'Department of Emergency Medicine, Kern Medical Center']]
[u'Ecological Distribution of Protosteloid Amoebae in New Zealand', ['Geoffrey Zahn', 'Steven L. Stephenson', 'Frederick W. Spiegel'], u'2013-12-20', u'During the period of March 2004 to December 2007, samples of aerial litter (dead but still attached plant parts) and ground litter were collected from study sites representing a wide range of latitudes (34\xb0 S to 50\xb0 S) and a variety of different types of habitats throughout New Zealand (including Stewart Island and the Auckland Islands). The objective was to survey the assemblages of protosteloid amoebae present in this region of the world. Twenty-nine described species of protosteloid amoebae were recorded, along with the heterolobesean acrasid, Acrasis rosea. Of the species recovered, Protostelium mycophaga was by far the most abundant and was found in more than half of all samples. Most species were found in fewer than 10% of the samples collected. Seven abundant or common species were found to display significant preferences for aerial litter or ground litter microhabitats. There was some evidence of a general pattern of a decrease in species richness and diversity with increasing latitude and precipitation and elevation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/136/', ['Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Arkansas']]
[u'Red deer synchronise their activity with close neighbours', ['Sean A Rands', 'Naomi Terry', 'Hayley Muir'], u'2013-12-20', u'Models of collective animal behaviour frequently make assumptions about the effects of neighbours on the behaviour of focal individuals, but these assumptions are rarely tested. One such set of assumptions is that the switch between active and inactive behaviour seen in herding animals is influenced by the activity of close neighbours, where neighbouring animals show a higher degree of behavioural synchrony than would be expected by chance. We tested this assumption by observing the simultaneous behaviour of paired individuals within a herd of red deer Cervus elaphus. Focal individuals were more synchronised with their two closest neighbours than with the third closest or randomly selected individuals from the herd. Our results suggest that the behaviour of individual deer is influenced by immediate neighbours. Even if we assume that there are no social relationships between individuals, this suggests that the assumptions made in models about the influence of neighbours may be appropriate.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/164/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Bristol']]
[u'Gamma-H2AX biodosimetry for use in large scale radiation incidents: comparison of a rapid lyse/fix protocol with a routine method', ['Jayne Moquet', 'Stephen G R Barnard', 'Kai Rothkamm'], u'2013-12-20', u'Following a radiation incident, preliminary dose estimates made by \u03b3-H2AX foci analysis can supplement the early triage of casualties based on clinical symptoms. Sample processing time is important when many individuals need to be rapidly assessed. A protocol was therefore developed for high sample throughput that requires less than 0.1 ml blood, thus enabling finger prick sampling. The technique combines red blood cell lysis and leukocyte fixation in one step on a 96 well plate, in contrast to the routine protocol, where lymphocytes are separated by Ficoll density gradient centrifugation with subsequent washing and fixation steps. The rapid lyse/fix method reduced the estimated sample processing time for 96 samples to about 4 h compared to 15 h using the routine protocol. However, scoring 20 cells in 96 samples prepared by the rapid protocol took longer than for the routine method (3.1 versus 1.5 h at zero dose; 7.0 versus 6.1 h for irradiated samples). Similar foci yields were scored for both protocols and reliable dose estimates were obtained for coded samples, with mean absolute differences from the actual doses of 0.26 and 0.27 Gy for the routine and lyse/fix method, respectively. The lyse/fix protocol can therefore facilitate high throughput processing for \u03b3-H2AX biodosimetry for use in large scale radiation incidents, at the cost of somewhat longer foci scoring times.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/163/', ['Cell Biology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Toxicology', 'Public Health', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Centre for Radiation, Chemical and Environmental Hazards, Public Health England']]
[u'Diagnosing the dangerous demography of manta rays using life history theory', ['Nicholas K Dulvy', 'Sebastian A. Pardo', 'Colin A. Simpfendorfer', 'John K. Carlson'], u'2013-12-20', u'The directed harvest and global trade in the gill plates of mantas, and other mobulid rays, has led to increased fishing pressure and steep population declines in some locations. The slow life history, particularly of the manta rays, is cited as a key reason why such species have little capacity to withstand directed fisheries. Here, we place their life history and demography in the context of other sharks and rays. Despite the limited availability of data, we use life history theory and comparative analysis to develop plausible ranges of somatic growth rate, annual pup production and age at maturity to estimate risk of extinction (maximum intrinsic rate of population increase rmax) using a variant of the classic Euler-Lotka model. Manta ray rmax is most sensitive to the length of the reproductive cycle, and the median rmax of 0.11 year-1(CI: 0.089-0.137) is one of the lowest known of the 106 sharks and rays for which we have comparable demographic information. In common with other unprotected, unmanaged, high-value large-bodied species with low or very low productivity, manta rays are unlikely to sustain unmonitored, unregulated exploitation and may face increasing local and regional extinction risk.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/162/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Earth to Ocean Research Group, Department of Biological Science, Simon Fraser University', u'Centre for Sustainable Tropical Fisheries and Aquaculture & School of Earth and Environmental Sciences, James Cook University', u'Southeast Fisheries Science Center, NOAA/National Marine Fisheries Service']]
[u'Poppr: an R package for genetic analysis of populations with clonal or partially clonal reproduction', ['Zhian N Kamvar', 'Javier F Tabima', 'Niklaus J Grunwald'], u'2013-12-19', u'Many microbial, fungal, or oomcyete populations violate assumptions for population genetic analysis because these populations are clonal or partially clonal. Furthermore, few tools exist that are specifically designed for analyzing data from clonal populations, making analysis difficult and haphazard. We developed the R package poppr providing unique tools for analysis of data from admixed, clonal, and/or mixed populations. Currently, poppr can be used for dominant/codominant and haploid/diploid genetic data. Data can be imported from several formats including GenAlEx formatted text files and can be analyzed on a user-defined hierarchy that includes unlimited levels of subpopulation structure and clone censoring. New functions include calculation of Bruvo\u2019s distance for microsatellites, batch-analysis of the index of association with several indices of genotypic diversity, and graphing including dendrograms with bootstrap support and minimum spanning networks. A manual with documentation and examples is provided. Poppr is open source and major releases are available on CRAN: http://cran.r-project.org/package=poppr. More supporting documentation and tutorials can be found under \u2018resources\u2019 at: http://grunwaldlab.cgrb.oregonstate.edu/.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/161/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genetics', 'Microbiology', 'Mycology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Botany and Plant Pathology, Oregon State University', u'Horticultural Crops Research Laboratory, USDA Agricultural Research Service']]
[u'The rediscovery and redescription of the holotype of the Late Jurassic turtle Plesiochelys etalloni', ['Jeremy Anquetin', 'Sylvie Deschamps', 'Julien Claude'], u'2013-12-19', u"Plesiochelyidae are a major component of Late Jurassic shallow marine environments throughout Europe. However, the taxonomy of the plesiochelyid turtles is rather confused. Over the years, many taxa have been synonymized with Plesiochelys etalloni, one of the first described species. However, the holotype of P. etalloni (and only specimen known from the type locality) was lost for more than 150 years. This specimen has been recently rediscovered in the collections of the Mus\xe9e d'arch\xe9ologie du Jura in Lons-le-Saunier, France. For the first time since its original description in 1857, the holotype of P. etalloni is redescribed and compared to relevant material. The taxonomical status of this taxon is revised accordingly. Based on the morphology of the newly rediscovered holotype, the species P. solodurensis, P. sanctaeverenae and P. langii are synonymized with P. etalloni. Known skull-shell associations for P. etalloni are re-evaluated in light of the new morphological information available since the rediscovery of this holotype specimen. Finally, we confirm that Plesiochelys is represented by a single species in Solothurn, Switzerland.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/160/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u"Section d'arch\xe9ologie et pal\xe9ontologie, Office de la culture, R\xe9publique et Canton du Jura", u"Centre de conservation et d'\xe9tude Ren\xe9 R\xe9mond, Mus\xe9e d'arch\xe9ologie du Jura", u"Institut des Sciences de l'Evolution de Montpellier, Universit\xe9 de Montpellier 2"]]
[u'Hawksbill x loggerhead sea turtle hybrids at Bahia, Brazil: where do their offspring go?', ['Maira C Proietti', 'Julia Reisser', 'Luis F. Marins', 'Maria A. Marcovaldi', 'Luciano S Soares', 'Danielle Monteiro', 'Sarath E.M. Wijeratne', 'Charitha Pattiaratchi', 'Eduardo R. Secchi'], u'2013-12-19', u'Hybridization between hawksbill (Eretmochelys imbricata) and loggerhead (Caretta caretta) breeding groups is unusually common in Bahia state, Brazil. Such hybridization is possible because hawksbill and loggerhead nesting activities overlap temporally and spatially along the coast of this state. Nevertheless, the destinations of their offspring are not yet known. This study is the first to identify immature hawksbill x loggerhead hybrids (n = 4) from this rookery by analyzing the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of 157 immature turtles morphologically identified as hawksbills. We also compare for the first time modeled dispersal patterns of hawksbill, loggerhead, and hybrid offspring considering hatching season and oceanic phase duration of turtles. Particle movements varied according to season, with a higher proportion of particles dispersing southwards throughout loggerhead and hybrid hatching seasons, and northwards during hawksbill season. Hybrids from Bahia were not present in important hawksbill feeding grounds of Brazil, being detected only at areas more common for loggerheads. The genetic and oceanographic findings of this work indicate that these immature hybrids, which are morphologically similar to hawksbills, could be adopting behavioral traits typical of loggerheads, such as feeding in temperate waters of the western South Atlantic. Understanding the distribution, ecology, and migrations of these hybrids is essential for the development of adequate conservation and management plans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/159/', ['Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Instituto de Oceanografia, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande', u'School of Environmental Systems Engineering & Oceans Institute, University of Western Australia & CSIRO Wealth from the Oceans Flagship', u'Instituto de Ci\xeancias Biol\xf3gicas, Universidade Federal do Rio Grande', u'Funda\xe7\xe3o Pr\xf3-Tamar', u'Archie Carr Center for Sea Turtle Research & Department of Biology, University of Florida', u'NGO, N\xfacleo de Educa\xe7\xe3o e Monitoramento Ambiental', u'School of Environmental Systems Engineering & Oceans Institute, University of Western Australia']]
[u'The perception of shape from shading in a new light', ['Michael J Proulx'], u'2013-12-17', u'How do humans see three-dimensional shape based on two-dimensional shading? Much research has assumed that a \u2018light from above\u2019 bias solves the ambiguity of shape from shading. Counter to the \u2018light from above\u2019 bias, studies of Bayesian priors have found that such a bias can be swayed by other light cues. Despite the persuasive power of the Bayesian models, many new studies and books cite the original \u2018light from above\u2019 findings. Here I present a version of the Bayesian result that can be experienced. The perception of shape-from-shading based was found here to be influenced by an external light source, even when the light was obstructed and did not directly illuminate a two-dimensional stimulus. The results imply that this effect is robust and not low-level in nature. The perception of shape from shading is not necessarily based on a hard-wired internal representation of lighting direction, but rather assesses the direction of lighting in the scene adaptively. Here, for the first time, is an experiential opportunity to see what the Bayesian models have supported all along.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/158/', ['Neuroscience', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Department of Psychology, University of Bath']]
[u'Constraints on vertebrate athleticism: The temperature dependence of red blood cell volume', ['James JF Gillooly', 'Rosana Zenil-Ferguson'], u'2013-12-14', u'The ability to perform at high levels of aerobic activity (i.e. athletic ability) increases with temperature among vertebrates. These differences in species\u2019 activity levels, from highly active to sedentary, are reflected in their ecology and behavior. Yet, the changes in the cardiovascular system that allow for greater oxygen supply rates at higher temperatures, and thus greater activity levels, remain unclear. Here we show that vertebrates provide more oxygen to tissues at higher temperatures in part by increasing the total volume of red blood cells in the body. Across 60 species of vertebrates (fishes,amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals), whole-body red blood cell volume increases exponentially with temperature after controlling for effects of body size and taxonomy. These changes are accompanied by increases in relative heart mass, an indicator of athletic ability. The results help explain how temperature-dependent changes in cardiovascular design allow species to overcome the constraints of passive diffusion on oxygen supply.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/154/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Florida']]
[u'Ant-mediated seed dispersal in a warmed world', ['Katharine L. Stuble', 'Courtney M. Patterson', 'Mariano A. Rodriguez-Cabal', 'Relena R. Ribbons', 'Robert R. Dunn', 'Nathan J. Sanders'], u'2013-12-13', u'Climate change affects communities both directly and indirectly via changes in interspecific interactions. One such interaction that may be altered under climate change is the ant-plant seed dispersal mutualism common in deciduous forests of the eastern US. As climatic warming alters the abundance and activity levels of ants, the potential exists for shifts in rates of ant-mediated seed removal. We used an experimental temperature manipulation at two sites in the eastern US (Harvard Forest in Massachusetts and Duke Forest in North Carolina) to examine the potential impacts of climatic warming on overall rates of seed dispersal (using Asarum canadense seeds) as well as species-specific rates of seed dispersal at the Duke Forest site. We also examined the relationship between ant critical thermal maxima (CTmax) and the mean seed removal temperature for each ant species. We found that seed removal rates did not change as a result of experimental warming at either study site, nor were there any changes in species-specific rates of seed dispersal. There was, however, a positive relationship between CTmax and mean seed removal temperature, whereby species with higher CTmax removed more seeds at hotter temperatures. The temperature at which seeds were removed was influenced by experimental warming as well as diurnal and day-to-day fluctuations in temperature. Taken together, our results suggest that while temperature may play a role in regulating seed removal by ants, ant plant seed-dispersal mutualisms may be more robust to climate change than currently assumed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/137/', ['Ecology'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee', u'Oklahoma Biological Survey, University of Oklahoma', u'Department of Zoology, University of British Columbia', u'INIBIOMA, CONICET, Universidad Nacional del Comahue', u'Department of Biological Sciences, North Carolina State University', u'Center for Macroecology, Evolution and Climate, Natural History Museum of Denmark']]
[u'The relationship between vegetation coverage and climate elements in Yellow River Basin, China', ['Qin Nie', 'Jianhua Xu'], u'2013-12-13', u'The paper examined the vegetation coverage dynamic and its response to climate elements in Yellow River Basin from 1998 to 2008 by an integrated approach made from series methods including correlation analysis, wavelet analysis, and wavelet regression analysis. The main findings are as follows: (1) Vegetation coverage exhibited significant, positive correlation with temperature and precipitation, but negative correlation with sunshine hours and relative humidity at some sites. The correlation between NDVI and precipitation is closest, followed respectively by temperature, relative humidity, and sunshine hours. Precipitation and temperature are the two major climate elements affecting vegetation coverage dynamics. (2) The vegetation coverage dynamics reflected by NDVI time series presented nonlinear variations that depended on the time-scale. Precipitation and temperature both presented nonlinear variations that were morphologically similar with those of NDVI. These further supported the close relationship between NDVI and these two climate elements from a new perspective. (3) Although NDVI, temperature, and precipitation revealed nonlinear variations at different time scales, the vegetation coverage showed a significantly, positively linear correlation with temperature and precipitation at all the time scales under examination.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/153/', ['Ecology'], [u'The Key Lab of GIScience of the Education Ministry PRC, East China Normal University', u'The Research Center for East-West Cooperation in China, The Key Lab of GIScience of the Education Ministry PRC, East China Normal University']]
[u'Snake venomics of Bothrops punctatus, a semi-arboreal pitviper species from Antioquia, Colombia', ['Maritza Fernandez Culma', 'Jaime A Pereanez', 'Vitelbina Nunez Rangel', 'Bruno Lomonte'], u'2013-12-12', u"Bothrops punctatus is an endangered, semi-arboreal pitviper species distributed in Panam\xe1, Colombia, and Ecuador, whose venom is poorly characterized. In the present work, the protein composition of this venom was profiled using the 'snake venomics' analytical strategy. Decomplexation of the crude venom by RP-HPLC and SDS-PAGE, followed by tandem mass spectrometry of tryptic digests, showed that it consists of proteins assigned to at least nine snake toxin families. Metalloproteinases are predominant in this secretion (41.5% of the total proteins), followed by C-type lectin/lectin-like proteins (16.7%), bradykinin-potentiating peptides (10.7%), phospholipases A2 (9.3%), serine proteinases (5.4%), disintegrins (3.8%), L-amino acid oxidases (3.1%), vascular endothelial growth factors (1.7%), and cysteine-rich secretory proteins (1.2%). Altogether, 6.6% of the proteins were not identified. In vitro, the venom exhibited proteolytic, phospholipase A2, and L-amino acid oxidase activities, as well as angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitory activity, in agreement with the obtained proteomic profile. Cytotoxic activity on murine C2C12 myoblasts was negative, suggesting that the majority of venom phospholipases A2 likely belong to the acidic type, which often lack major toxic effects. The protein composition of B. punctatus venom shows a good correlation with toxic activities here and previously reported, and adds further data in support of the wide diversity of strategies that have evolved in snake venoms to subdue prey, as increasingly being revealed by proteomic analyses.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/152/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biodiversity', 'Toxicology'], [u'Programa de Ofidismo/Escorpionismo, Universidad de Antioquia', u'Instituto Clodomiro Picado, University of Costa Rica']]
[u'Arboreal spiders in coffee agroecosystems: Untangling the web of local and landscape influences driving diversity', ['Zachary Hajian-Forooshani', 'David Gonthier', 'Linda Marin', 'Aaron L Iverson', 'Ivette Perfecto'], u'2013-12-11', u'Agricultural intensification is implicated as a major driver of global biodiversity loss. Local management and landscape scale factors both influence biodiversity in agricultural systems, but there are relatively few studies to date looking at how local and landscape scales influence biodiversity in tropical agroecosystems. Understanding what drives the diversity of groups of organisms such as spiders is important from a pragmatic point of view because of the important biocontrol services they offer to agriculture. Spiders in coffee are somewhat enigmatic because of their positive or lack of response to agricultural intensification. In this study, we provide the first analysis, to our knowledge, of the arboreal spiders in the shade trees of coffee plantations. In the Soconusco region of Chiapas, Mexico we sampled across 38 sites on 9 coffee plantations. Tree and canopy connectedness were found to positively influence overall arboreal spider richness and abundance. We found that different functional groups of spiders are responding to different local and landscape factors, but overall elevation was most important variable influencing arboreal spider diversity. Our study has practical management applications that suggest having shade grown coffee offers more suitable habitat for arboreal spiders due to a variety of the characteristics of the shade trees. Our results which show consistently more diverse arboreal spider communities in lower elevations are important in light of looming global climate change. As the range of suitable elevations for coffee cultivation shrinks promoting arboreal spider diversity will be important in sustaining the viability of coffee.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/151/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan', u'School of Natural Resources and Environment, University of Michigan']]
[u'Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia prophylaxis is a challenge in granulomatosis with polyangiitis patients treated with rituximab.', ['Emilio Besada'], u'2013-12-11', u'All strategies to prevent Pneumocystis jiroveci pneumonia (PCP) during rituximab treatment have their rationale in patients with granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) and to some extent in patients with other autoimmune diseases (AID). Risk factors of PCP and severe infections are very similar in GPA patients. The decision of PCP prophylaxis should not be limited at RTX initiation and during RTX treatment, but should be reassessed continuously in all GPA patients. Since PCP increases the mortality risk in GPA (and AID) patients, the treating physician should always consider PCP as a possible diagnosis in patients treated with RTX - receiving or not PCP prophylaxis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/149/', ['Allergy and Clinical Immunology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Internal Medicine', 'Respiratory Medicine', 'Rheumatology'], [u'Bone and Joint Research Group, Institute of Clinical Medicine, UiT The Arctic University of  Norway']]
[u'Reconstructing Ireland\u2019s marine fisheries catches: 1950-2010', ['Dana D Miller', 'Dirk Zeller'], u'2013-12-11', u'The wasteful practice of discarding catch is one of the major problems associated with European fisheries. Despite this, estimates of discarded catch are not included in the \u2018Official Catch Statistics\u2019 database (1905 to present) collected and maintained by the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea (ICES). Furthermore, removals through recreational sea angling and estimates of other forms of unreported landings are often also missing from this dataset. Here, total discarded catch and unreported landings made by Irish commercial fishing vessels, and the total amount of fish caught and retained through Irish sea angling activities within the Northeast Atlantic from 1950 to 2010 have been estimated. Total reconstructed catches were 19.3% and 20.9% higher than the officially recorded total landings as reported by ICES from the Northeast Atlantic, and those estimated as being from within the Irish Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ), respectively. Discarded catch was proportionately the largest component of the reconstruction, representing 12.7% of the total catch within the Irish EEZ. The Irish catch reconstruction presented here is by no means assumed to represent the complete record of total removals and the authors encourage further efforts to improve upon this attempt. However, considering the current absence of estimated values for discarded catch, recreational removals and other unreported landings from officially and publicly reported data, we feel that our reconstruction provides an improved baseline estimate of more accurate total Irish marine fisheries catch that has not previously been made publicly available.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/150/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Fisheries Economics Research Unit, Fisheries Centre, University of British Columbia', u'Sea Around Us project, Fisheries Centre, University of British Columbia']]
[u'Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC): Identification, Proliferation and Differentiation', ['Sylvestar Darvin Sandhaanam', 'Ganesan Pathalam', 'Sudarsanam Dorairaj', 'Vincent Savariar'], u'2013-12-11', u'Stem cells have the remarkable potential to develop into many different specialized cells in the body. Serving as a sort of repair system for the body, they can theoretically divide without limit to repletion other cells as long as the person or animal is still alive. When a stem cell divides, each new cell has the potential to either endure a stem cell or become another type of cell with a more specialized function, such as a muscle cell, or a red blood cell, or a brain cell. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSC) are a group of cells present in bone-marrow stroma and the stroma of various organs with the capacity for mesoderm-like cell differentiation into, many types like osteoblasts, adipocytes, and chondrocytes. MSC are being use in the clinic for the treatment of a variety of clinical conditions. Cell-based therapies (CBTs) are quickly taking hold as a revolutionary new approach to treat many human diseases. Among the cells used for therapeutic functions, multipotent mesenchymal stromal cells, also often and imprecisely termed (MSC), are widely used because they are considered clinically safe, unique in their immune-capabilities, easily obtained from adult tissues, and easily developed and restore.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/148/', ['Biotechnology'], [u'P.G & Research Department of Advanced Zoology and Biotechnology, Loyola College']]
[u'Identifying Genetic Interactions Associated with Late-Onset Alzheimer\u2019s Disease', ['Charalampos S Floudas', 'Nara Um', 'M. Ilyas Kamboh', 'Michael M Barmada', 'Shyam Visweswaran'], u'2013-12-11', u'Background Identifying genetic interactions in data obtained from genome-wide association studies (GWASs) can help in understanding the genetic basis of complex diseases. The large number of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in GWASs however makes the identification of genetic interactions computationally challenging. We developed the Bayesian Combinatorial Method (BCM) that can identify pairs of SNPs that in combination have high statistical association with disease. Results We applied BCM to two late-onset Alzheimer\u2019s disease (LOAD) GWAS datasets to identify SNP-SNP interactions between a set of known SNP associations and the dataset SNPs. For evaluation we compared our results with those from logistic regression, as implemented in PLINK. Gene Ontology analysis of genes from the top 200 dataset SNPs for both GWAS datasets showed overrepresentation of LOAD-related terms. Four genes were common to both datasets: APOE and APOC1, which have well established associations with LOAD, and CAMK1D and FBXL13, not previously linked to LOAD but having evidence of involvement in LOAD. Supporting evidence was also found for additional genes from the top 30 dataset SNPs. Conclusion BCM performed well in identifying several SNPs having evidence of involvement in the pathogenesis of LOAD that would not have been identified by univariate analysis due to small main effect. These results provide support for applying BCM to identify potential genetic variants such as SNPs from high dimensional GWAS datasets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/123/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Cognitive Disorders', 'Neurology'], [u'Department of Biomedical Informatics, University of Pittsburgh', u'Department of Human Genetics, University of Pittsburgh', u'The Intelligent Systems Program, University of Pittsburgh']]
[u'Free flow of sweat due to loss of surface tension at sweat droplets causes water-induced skin wrinkling', ['Soumya Marasakatla', 'Karunakar Marasakatla'], u'2013-12-10', u'Water immersion skin wrinkling has long been used as a test for sympathetic nerve function. However, the cause of underlying mechanism remained elusive. In this article, we theoretically investigate a possible cause of the phenomenon by taking various properties of sweating into consideration. The pressure exerted by the surface tension of sweat droplets counterbalances the secretory pressure of sweat glands at the pore. When a hand is immersed in water, sweat droplets easily merge with the water, causing the pressure to drop at the pore. Our calculations, using earlier measurements of secretory pressure, show that the water pressure at the sweat pore will be less than the secretory pressure of sweat glands when the hand is immersed at a shallow depth. The resulting pressure imbalance enables the sweat to flow freely into the water. We believe that there will be an initial vasodilation to feed the excess generation of sweat. Sweat flow continues as long as there is blood flow to the hand. To prevent excessive loss of sweat from the body and to maintain homeostasis, sympathetic nerves trigger vasoconstriction to reduce the blood flow to the hand. The overlying skin wrinkles due to loss of volume under the skin. It is possible that denerved fingers remain in the vasodilation state during immersion due to a lack of sympathetic nerve function.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/57/', ['Biophysics', 'Anatomy and Physiology', 'Dermatology', 'Neurology'], [u'Senior, Wayzata High School', u'Independent Scientist']]
[u'Closed-Form Estimation of Multiple Change-Point Models', ['Greg Jensen'], u'2013-12-08', u'Identifying discontinuities (or change-points) in otherwise stationary time series is a powerful analytic tool. This paper outlines a general strategy for identifying an unknown number of change-points using elementary principles of Bayesian statistics. Using a strategy of binary partitioning by marginal likelihood, a time series is recursively subdivided on the basis of whether adding divisions (and thus increasing model complexity) yields a justified improvement in the marginal model likelihood. When this approach is combined with the use of conjugate priors, it yields the Conjugate Partitioned Recursion (CPR) algorithm, which identifies change-points without computationally intensive numerical integration. Using the CPR algorithm, methods are described for specifying change-point models drawn from a host of familiar distributions, both discrete (binomial, geometric, Poisson) and continuous (exponential, Gaussian, uniform, and multiple linear regression), as well as multivariate distribution (multinomial, multivariate normal, and multivariate linear regression). Methods by which the CPR algorithm could be extended or modified are discussed, and several detailed applications to data published in psychology and biomedical engineering are described.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/90/', ['Statistics'], [u'Department of Psychology, Columbia University']]
[u'Genome-wide approaches and technologies to assess human variation', ['Claudia Gonzaga-Jauregui'], u'2013-12-09', u'Current genome-wide technologies allow interrogation and exploration of the human genome as never before. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies, along with high resolution Single Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNP) arrays and array Comparative Genomic Hybrization (aCGH) enable assessment of human genome variation at the finest resolution from base pair changes such as simple nucleotide variants (SNVs) to large copy-number variants (CNVs). The application of these genomic technologies in the clinical setting has also enabled the molecular characterization of genetic disorders and the understanding of the biological functions of more genes in human development, disease, and health. In this review, the current approaches and platforms available for high-throughput human genome analyses, the steps involved in these different methodologies from sample preparation to data analysis, their applications, and limitations are summarized and discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/147/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics'], [u'Center for Human Disease Modeling, Duke University', u'Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor College of Medicine']]
[u'LecoS - A QGIS plugin for automated landscape ecology analysis', ['Martin Jung'], u'2013-12-09', u'The quantification of landscape structures is an important part in many ecological analysis dealing with GIS derived satellite data. This paper introduces a new free and open-source tool for conducting landscape ecology analysis. LecoS is able to compute a variety of basic and advanced landscape metrics in an automatized way by iterating through an optional provided vector layer. It is integrated into the QGIS processing framework and can thus be used as a stand-alone tool or within bigger complex models. Finally a potential case-study is demonstrated, which tries to quantify pollinators responses on landscape derived metrics at various scales.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/116/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Visualizing habitat use and behavior of whale sharks using the open tag, applications for ecotourism regulation.', ['Jacob J Levenson', 'Robert Cooper', 'Colin Ware', 'Jacqueline Sly', 'David Wise', 'Rafael de la Parra-Venegas', 'Alistair D.M. Dove'], u'2013-12-08', u'Background. The rapidly decreasing cost of components and growing open source electronics industry has enabled access to improved tools for monitoring the behavior of aquatic species on a fine scale never before achieved. We use the new Open Tag as a novel approach to visualizing feeding behavior of whale sharks. Methods. The Open Tag is a Arduino compatible open-source inertial measurement unit for recording high speed motion sensor data to a microSD memory card. A three dimensional gyroscope, accelerometer, and magnetometer allow for calculating pitch, yaw, and heading, while depth and temperature sample continuously. The rechargeable lithium battery allows for deployments up to 7 days sampling at 100Hz. The Open Tag is placed in a hydrodynamic syntactic foam float, with a band that stretches around the dorsal fin. A galvanic release incorporated into the tag allows for a release time to be programmed and a VHF tag (ATS) aids in recovery. Results. An Open Tag was successfully deployed on a whale shark for 101 hours in August of 2013 in Yucatan Mexico. Behaviors noted included frequent surface intervals, even during the night when previously believed whale sharks were normally in deeper waters. A maximum depth of 49 meters was observed, with dives to 25 meters recorded regularly. We were able to identify possible harassment at the surface and defecation events. Conclusion. The Open Tag fills a unique niche in whale shark studies as a useful tool to better understanding of fine scale habitat use and behavior. By incorporating these data into Trackplot with data on the position of ecotour vessels, we can visualize behavior and investigate potential erratic changes in depth, heading and lateral movement amplitude indicative of harassment', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/145/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Georgia Aquarium Research Center', u'Western Atlantic Research Institute', u'Data Visualization Research Lab, University of New Hampshire', u'Department of Ocean Engineering, Massachusetts Institute of Technology', u'Cho\u2019oj Ajauil AC', u'Georgia Aquarium Research Center, Georgia Aquarium']]
[u'Population dynamics of harmful algal blooms in Lake Champlain: A tale of two phases', ['Edmund Hart', 'Nicholas Gotelli', 'Rebecca Gorney', 'Mary Watzin'], u'2013-12-07', u'Understanding the dynamics of harmful algal blooms (HABs) in lakes can inform management strategies to reduce their economic and health impacts. Previous studies have analyzed spatially replicated samples from a single time or have fit phenomenological models to time series data. We fit mechanistic population models to test the effects of critical nutrient concentrations and the density of potential algal competitors on population growth parameters in HABs in Lake Champlain, U.S.A. We fit models to five years (2003-2006, 2008) of weekly cyanobacteria counts. Plankton dynamics exhibited two phases of population growth: an initial \u201cbloom phase\u201d of rapid population growth and a subsequent \u201cpost-bloom phase\u201d of stochastic decline. Population growth rates in the bloom phase were strongly density dependent and increased with increasing TN:TP ratios. The post-bloom phase was largely stochastic and was not obviously related to nutrient concentrations. Because TN:TP was important only in the initial phase of population growth, correlative analyses of the relationship between cyanobacteria blooms and nutrient concentrations may be especially sensitive to when snapshot data are collected. Limiting nutrient inputs early in the season could be an effective management strategy for suppressing or reducing the bloom phase of cyanobacteria population growth.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/75/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Ecoinformatics, National Ecological Observatory Network', u'Department of Biology, University of Vermont', u'Natural Resources, University of Vermont', u'College of Natural Resources, North Carolina State University']]
[u'A critique of Mumby et al. 2011 \u201cGrouper as a natural biocontrol of invasive lionfish\u201d', ['John F Bruno'], u'2013-12-06', u'Mumby et al. (2011) tested the biotic resistance hypothesis by comparing the biomass of invasive lionfish (introduced from the Indo-Pacific) and native grouper (Serranidae) at 12 sites within and adjacent to the Exuma Cays Land and Sea Park, The Bahamas. They reported that mean lionfish biomass was slightly lower within the reserve, compared to adjacent fished sites, and that there was a negative relationship between the biomass of lionfish and grouper. However, their study has a number of limitations and does not constitute sufficient evidence of a level of biotic resistance that would be ecologically meaningful. For example, the study design is pseudoreplicated and the biomass of lionfish is extremely low relative to observed values across the Caribbean. Furthermore, the effect size (assuming that there is an effect of native grouper) is very small compared to the natural range of lionfish biomass. Given the problems with Mumby et al. (2011) and evidence from other studies (e.g., Hackerott et al. 2013) that the biomass of lionfish and grouper is unrelated, it seems clear that managers cannot rely on native grouper populations to control the lionfish invasion.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/141/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Surgical technique\xb4s influence on overall survival, disease free interval and new lesion development interval in dogs with mammary tumors', ['Rodrigo dos Santos Horta', 'Gleidice Eunice Lavalle', 'Rubia Monteiro de Castro Cunha', 'Larissa Layara de Moura', 'Roberto Baracat de Araujo', 'Geovanni Dantas Cassali'], u'2013-12-05', u'Mammary gland tumors represent 42% of all tumors in the bitch. Although there are numerous studies about disease development and progression, some questions remain concerning the surgical treatment. Many surgical techniques may be used for the treatment of canine mammary tumors similar to Medicine, the advantages and disadvantages of each procedure have been extensively discussed. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the influence of surgical procedure on survival, disease free interval and new lesion development interval in dogs with mammary tumors treated according to the biological behavior of these lesions. For this, 143 intact bitches were submitted to surgery for the treatment of mammary tumors between 2007 and 2011. Removal of mammary tumors was performed through the simplest and less invasive surgical procedure necessary for the complete removal of all tumors and main known lymphatic connections between affected glands: lumpectomy, mammectomy, regional mastectomy (including abdominal cranial mammary gland or not) or radical mastectomy. Mean clinical follow-up was 738.5 days. Considering only the first surgical event, 84.6% of animals had more than one mammary tumor, and 52.5% had tumors in both mammary chains. Comparing surgical techniques, there was no difference in ipsilateral and contralateral tumor development. Only 33 dogs developed new lesions in remaining mammary tissue, without correlation with primary lesion. Surgical technique had no effect on overall survival, disease-free interval and new lesion development interval in patients on this study, treated according to oncological surgery principles and established prognostic factors for mammary gland tumors in dogs. It is important to consider these results when deciding on the surgical management of dogs with mammary tumors, to avoid aggressive surgical procedures that will not translate into clinical advantages to the patient.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/143/', ['Veterinary Medicine', 'Oncology', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Department of Veterinary Clinic and Surgery, Veterinary School, Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG)', u'Department of Veterinary Clinic and Surgery, Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG)', u'Department of General Patholgy, Institute of Biological Sciences, Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG)']]
[u'Potential bias in the indirect methods for extracting summary statistics in literature-based meta-analyses: an empirical evaluation', ['Dima Y Abdallah'], u'2013-12-05', u'Background: In literature-based meta-analyses of cancer prognostic studies, methods for extracting summary statistics from published reports have been extensively employed. However, no assessment of the magnitude of bias produced by these methods or comparison of their influence on fixed vs. random effects models have been published previously. Therefore, the purpose of this study is to empirically assess the degree of bias produced by the methods used for extracting summary statistics and examine potential effects on fixed and random effects models. Methods: Using published data from cancer prognostic studies, systematic differences between reported statistics and those obtained indirectly using log-rank test p-values and total number of events were tested using paired t tests and the log-rank test of survival-agreement plots. The degree of disagreement between estimates was quantified using an information-based disagreement measure, which was also used to examine levels of disagreement between expressions obtained from fixed and random effects models. Results: Thirty-four studies provided a total of 65 estimates of lnHR and its variance. There was a significant difference between the means of the indirect lnHRs and the reported values (mean difference = -0.272, t = -4.652, p-value <0.0001), as well as between the means of the two estimates of variances (mean difference = -0.115, t = -4.5556, p-value <0.0001). Survival agreement plots illustrated a bias towards under-estimation by the indirect method for both lnHR (log-rank p-value = 0.031) and its variance (log-rank p-value = 0.0432). The magnitude of disagreement between estimates of lnHR based on the information-based measure was 0.298 (95% CI: 0.234 \u2013 0.361) and, for the variances it was 0.406 (95% CI: 0.339 \u2013 0.470). As the disagreement between variances was higher than that between lnHR estimates, this increased the level of disagreement between lnHRs weighted by the inverse of their variances in fixed effect models. In addition, results indicated that random effects meta-analyses could be more prone to bias than fixed effects meta-analyses as, in addition to bias in estimates of lnHRs and their variances, levels of disagreement as high as 0.487 (95% CI: 0.416 \u2013 0.552) and 0.568 (95% CI: 0.496 \u2013 0.635) were produced due to between-studies variance calculations. Conclusions: Extracting summary statistics from published studies could introduce bias in literature-based meta-analyses and undermine the validity of the evidence. These findings emphasise the importance of reporting sufficient statistical information in research articles and warrant further research into the influence of potential bias on random effects models.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/142/', ['Epidemiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Oncology', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Public Health, Physiotherapy, and Population Science, University College Dublin']]
[u'The economic impact of failures in plant protection to New Zealand', ['John T Saunders', 'Caroline M Saunders', 'James G Buwalda', 'Pip J Gerard', 'Graeme W Bourdot', 'Stephen D Wratten', 'Stephen L Goldson'], u'2013-12-04', u'Plant weeds, pests and diseases comprise significant threats to pastoral agriculture in New Zealand. The extent of damage incurred by New Zealand\u2019s agricultural industry from these weed and pest threats varies significantly depending on the response implemented, and the technologies available. This paper assesses the projected economic impact of three individual potential failures in plant protection, specifically the spread of clover root weevil, giant buttercup and glassy-winged sharpshooter across New Zealand, and the potential mitigation of economic loss caused by these failures through various response methods. This assessment is carried out with the use of a national-level agricultural production and value model, based on data from the Ministry for Primary Industries farm models and the Lincoln Trade and Environment Model, an international trade and environment model. The model projects economic impact on agriculture until 2030, comparing the differences in economic impact between business as usual without the advent of each threat and then with the advent of each threat alongside various potential responses. The modelled responses cover firstly the most probable responses, and secondly the use of biological control agents, in the form of a parasitoid or bio-herbicide control. The results show that biological controls offer the most effective and feasible responses to the modelled threats to pastoral agriculture compared with other responses.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/140/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Ecology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Agribusiness and Economics Research Unit, Lincoln University', u'Bio-Protection Research Centre, Lincoln University', u'Ruakura Research Centre, AgResearch', u'Lincoln Research Centre, AgResearch']]
[u'Testing the grouper biocontrol hypothesis: A response to Mumby et al. 2013', ['John F Bruno', 'Abel Valdivia', 'Serena Hackerott', 'Courtney E Cox', 'Stephaine Green', 'Isabelle Cote', 'Lad Akins', 'Craig Layman', 'William Precht'], u'2013-12-03', u'Biotic resistance is the idea that native species negatively affect the invasion success of introduced species. We tested the hypothesis that native grouper are controlling the abundance of exotic lionfish on Caribbean coral reefs by assessing the relationship between the density and biomass of lionfish and native predators at 71 reefs in three biogeographic regions. Our results indicated that: (a) the abundance of lionfish and large grouper are not negatively related, and (b) lionfish abundance is controlled by a number of physical site characteristics, and possibly by culling. Taken together, our results suggest that managers cannot rely on native grouper populations to control the lionfish invasion. Mumby et al. (2013) objected to several aspects of our analysis and conclusions. Here we address their criticisms and argue that our original conclusions are valid.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/139/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Marine Sciences, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Zoology, Oregon State University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Simon Fraser University', u'REEF', u'Reef Environmental Education Foundation', u'Department of Applied Ecology, North Carolina State University', u'Dial Cordy & Associates']]
[u'Evaluation of a drug & alcohol primary health care team', ['Robert Patton'], u'2013-12-02', u'As part of an ongoing assessment of the physical health needs of injecting drug users during 2005, all 167 general practices in the Lambeth, Southwark & Lewisham (LSL) area were sent a questionnaire. The results indicate that the majority of IDUs visited the surgery because of DVT, pregnancy, chest infections or skin ulceration, and the GPs themselves opportunistically identified more serious problems such as BBV\u2019s and Liver problems. Interestingly we found significant variation in the rate of opportunistic detection between PCTs. Many practices indicated that health promotion activity would benefit their IDU clients, in particular issues related to smoking and drinking, as well as dental health, diet and exercise needed to be addressed. In general it was felt that a nurse led resource integrated into existing services, such as that offered by the Drug and Alcohol Health Care Team, would be of greatest benefit to IDU clients.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/135/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public health'], [u"Addictions Department, King's College London"]]
[u'Women\u2019s Health Initiative Findings on Glioma Incidence after Hormone Therapy in Post-Menopausal Women', ['Michael Karsy', 'Erol Arslan', 'Nicolas Kummer', 'Fred Moy'], u'2013-11-30', u'Glioblastoma multiforme is a grade IV astrocytoma arising de novo or progressing from lower grade II and III gliomas. Currently the etiology of glioma and prediction of disease progression are unknown. Recent epidemiological studies have suggested that hormonal factors, including estrogen treatment, may impact glioma risk however these studies have been limited to case-control trials and retrospective cohort studies. Here, we evaluate results from the Women\u2019s Health Initiative, which involved 161,808 women with robust data regarding hormone exposures. During a median of 12.7 years of follow-up, 167 cases of glioma (130 cases of GBM) were ascertained. The relationship between gliomas and hormone therapy (HT; estrogen-alone [E-alone] or estrogen plus progestin [E+P]) was evaluated using Cox proportional hazards models as well as Kaplan-Meier time-to-event analysis. There was no association with gliomas for the E-alone group (HR=0.76, 95% CI=0.43,1.36) but there was an inverse association for E+P (HR=0.48, 95% CI= 0.26, 0.88, p=0.02) after accounting for patient, hormone exposure and reproductive factors. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis demonstrated a significant reduction in time-to-incidence for the E+P group (p=0.0035). Findings from the matched case-control arm of the WHI trial did not demonstrate significant impact of HT on glioma incidence. The results of this study suggest a reduction in glioma risk after treatment with estrogen plus progesterone however a further large scale case-controlled study is warranted to evaluate the impact of HT on this disease.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/134/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Neurology', 'Oncology', 'Translational Medicine'], [u'Department of Neurosurgery, The University of Utah', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Derik State Hospital', u'Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Fertility Preservation', u'Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California \u2013 Los Angeles', u'Department of Pathology, New York Medical College']]
[u'Whale shark regional research collaboration between Utila, Honduras and Isla Mujeres, M\xe9xico.', ['Beatriz Eugenia Galvan', 'Steve Fox', 'Rafael de la Parra'], u'2013-11-30', u'Background. Utila, Bay Islands, Honduras, is one of the few locations in the Western Hemisphere where whale sharks can be spotted year-round, while off the northeastern Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico, they aggregate during summertime in large numbers of up to several hundred. When our research on these sharks began, we hypothesized they migrate south to north from Honduras, then to Belize and finally to Mexico. Methods. From 2007-2013, we documented the presence of whale sharks in both locations using visual tags and photo-identification, to establish the connections between the sites. The international whale shark library ECOCEAN was an important tool for this research. Results. Our research collaboration began on 2007, we have registered and photographed 59 \u201cencounters\u201d, from these, 9 were \u201cBelizeans\u201d and 8 become new Honduran recruits. While 5 more remain as unassigned since positive individual identification has not been possible yet. From our database and ECOCEAN compare, we know that we share several individuals in between the two locations, and some even visit Belize. Conclusion. At least some individuals of the western Atlantic population travel between Honduras and Mexico, and some hang around Belize in between as well.We conclude that whale sharks wander in the Caribbean, the Gulf of M\xe9xico and the open Atlantic Ocean, and aggregate when food blooms are available.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/133/', ['Marine Biology'], [u"Ch'ooj Ajauil AC", u'Utila Whale Shark Research Center, Deep Blue Utila']]
[u'Whale shark behaviors observed in northeastern Quintana Roo, Mexico.', ['Rafael de la Parra', 'Alistair D.M. Dove', 'Beatriz Galvan'], u'2013-11-30', u'Background: Whale shark feeding aggregations in northeastern Quintana Roo (Yucatan Peninsula) between May and September are a natural phenomenon well known to local people for decades. Since 2001 we have observed these animals, first as tourists and then as part of formal research activities including conventional tagging, aerial survey and photographic identification. During this time we have made significant behavioral observations, other than previously described: passive and active feeding, banking as predatory response, tolerance even to be touched by people.\nMethods: Observations were made primarily during snorkeling surveys of the wale shark aggregation between 2001 and 2013. Video documenting and photographic identifications were made using ECOCEAN and our own photographic catalogue of individual Quintana Roo animals. Data collected on each whale shark included its location, sex, total length estimation, tagging, photographs and behavioral observations. Over 1,340 hours were spent in documenting many conducts performed by whale sharks. Important to notice that these observations were made mostly around tourism activities, but many were made before or after tour operation, or on separate sub-aggregations, under SEMARNAT permission: SGPA/DGVS/10048/12 Results: 54,662 photographs were obtained during 366 observation days, plus 1,382 videos for over 315 minutes, on a decade of study and survey. Individual whale sharks in the QR aggregation have also been observed in Belize, Honduras and the Gulf of Mexico and some have visitation records exceeding 10 years. Occasionally, early spring ephemeral aggregations occur, perhaps in response to short term plankton blooms, these are composed by the same individual animals as revealed after photographic identification. These aggregations are mostly male and immature. Larger females seem to stay on the periphery of the aggregation or even form separate small groups. Smaller animals appear to be more curious of humans than ar e older animals. Many animals feed vertically and some are observed \u201ccoughing\u201d and \u201cmouth washing\u201d. Vigorous tail-flapping and increased remora activity often precedes defecation, banking behavior may be social.\nConclusion: Prolonged observation shows that whale sharks have a more diverse behavioral repertoire than known previously and confirming observations made of aquarium-held animals, as well as their ability to synchronize their presence with high productivity occurrence. More detailed studies of group composition are definitely needed, as are functional studies of some of the other intriguing behaviors. Since whale shark behavior is often opportunistic and facultative, and depends on many factors to coincide, like specific weather and oceanic conditions, food concentration as well as anthropogenic influence, statistical analysis is beyond this study consideration. Do these events play a role in breeding opportunity?', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/132/', ['Marine Biology'], [u"Ch'ooj Ajauil AC", u'Georgia Aquarium Research Center, Georgia Aquarium']]
[u'Amplikyzer: Automated methylation analysis of amplicons from bisulfite flowgram sequencing', ['Sven Rahmann', 'Jasmin Beygo', 'Deniz Kanber', 'Marcel Martin', 'Bernhard Horsthemke', 'Karin Buiting'], u'2013-11-29', u'The Roche 454 GS Junior sequencing platform allows locus-specific DNA methylation analysis using deep bisulfite amplicon sequencing. However, bisulfite-converted DNA reads may contain long T homopolymers, and the main sources of errors on pyrosequencing platforms are homopolymer over- and undercalls. Furthermore, existing tools do not always meet the analysis requirements for complex assay designs with multiple regions of interest (ROIs) from multiple samples. We have developed the amplikyzer software package to address the above challenges. It directly aligns the intensity sequences from standard flowgram files (SFF format) to given amplicon reference sequences, without converting to nucleotide FASTA format first, avoiding information loss by rounding flow intensities, and taking special measures to correctly process long homopolymers. It offers a variety of options to analyze complex multiplexed samples with several regions of interest and outputs useful statistics and publication-quality analysis plots without mandatory manual interaction. This allows our software to be used as part of automated pipelines as well as interactively. The underlying analysis algorithms, using a novel hybrid flowgram-DNA sequence representation are described in detail. We also discuss configuration options and use cases of our open source amplikyzer software and present exemplary results. The software, including required libraries, is available at https://bitbucket.org/svenrahmann/amplikyzer/downloads.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/122/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Genome Informatics, Institute of Human Genetics, Universit Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen', u'Institute of Human Genetics, University Hospital Essen, University of Duisburg-Essen']]
[u'Does more sequence data improve estimates of galliform phylogeny? Analyses of a rapid radiation using a complete data matrix', ['Rebecca T Kimball', 'Edward L Braun'], u'2013-11-30', u'The resolution of rapid evolutionary radiations or \u201cbushes\u201d in the tree of life has been one of the most difficult and interesting problems in phylogenetics. The avian order Galliformes appears to have undergone several rapid radiations that have limited the resolution of prior studies and obscured the position of taxa important both agriculturally and as model systems (chicken, turkey, Japanese quail). Here we present analyses of a multi-locus data matrix comprising over 15,000 sites, primarily from nuclear introns but also including three mitochondrial regions, from 46 galliform taxa with all gene regions sampled for all taxa. The increased sampling of unlinked nuclear genes provided strong bootstrap support for all but a small number of relationships. Coalescent-based methods to combine individual gene trees and analyses of datasets independent of published data indicated that this well-supported topology is likely to reflect the galliform species tree. Some of the key findings include support for a second major clade within the core phasianids that includes the chicken and Japanese quail and clarification of the phylogenetic relationships of turkey. Jackknifed datasets suggested that there is an advantage to sampling many independent regions across the genome rather than obtaining long sequences for a small number of loci, possibly reflecting the differences among gene trees that differ due to incomplete lineage sorting. Despite the novel insights we obtained using this increased sampling of gene regions, some nodes remain unresolved, likely due to periods of rapid diversification. Resolving these remaining groups will likely require sequencing a very large number of gene regions, but our analyses now appear to support a robust backbone for this order.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/131/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of Florida']]
[u'Disorder affects judgements about a neighbourhood: Police presence does not', ['Jessica M Hill', 'Thomas V Pollet', 'Daniel Nettle'], u'2013-11-29', u'Many police forces operate a policy of high visibility in disordered neighbourhoods with high crime. However, little is known about whether increased police presence influences people\u2019s beliefs about a neighbourhood\u2019s social environment or their fear of crime. Three experimental studies compared people\u2019s perceptions of social capital and fear of crime in disordered and ordered neighbourhoods, either with a police presence or no police presence. In all studies, neighbourhood disorder lowered perceptions of social capital, resulting in a higher fear of crime. Police presence or absence had no significant effect. The pervasive effects of disorder above other environmental cues are discussed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/130/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'The Netherlands Institute for the Study of Crime and Law Enforcement', u'Department of Social and Organizational Psychology, VU University', u'Institute of Neuroscience, Newcastle University']]
[u'Sampling designs matching species biology produce accurate and affordable abundance indices', ['Grant Harris', 'Sean Farley', 'Gareth J Russell', 'Matthew J Butler', 'Jeff Selinger'], u'2013-11-27', u'Wildlife biologists often use grid-based designs to sample animals and generate abundance estimates. Although sampling in grids is theoretically sound, in application, the method can be logistically difficult and expensive when sampling elusive species inhabiting extensive areas. These factors make it challenging to sample animals and meet the statistical assumption of all individuals having an equal probability of capture. Violating this assumption biases results. Does an alternative exist? Perhaps by sampling only where resources attract animals (i.e. targeted sampling), it would provide accurate abundance estimates more efficiently and affordably. However, biases from this approach would also arise if individuals have an unequal probability of capture, especially if some failed to visit the sampling area. Since most biological programs are resource limited, and acquiring abundance data drives many conservation and management applications, it becomes imperative to identify economical and informative sampling designs. Therefore, we evaluated abundance estimates generated from grid and targeted sampling designs using simulations based on geographic positioning system (GPS) data from 42 Alaskan brown bears (Ursus arctos). Migratory salmon drew brown bears from the wider landscape, concentrating them at anadromous streams. This provided a scenario for testing the targeted approach. Grid and targeted sampling varied by trap amount, location (traps placed randomly, systematically or by expert opinion), and traps stationary or moved between capture sessions. We began by identifying when to sample, and if bears had equal probability of capture. We compared abundance estimates against seven criteria: bias, precision, accuracy, effort, plus encounter rates, and probabilities of capture and recapture. One grid (49 km2 cells) and one targeted configuration provided the most accurate results. Both placed traps by expert opinion and moved traps between capture sessions, which raised capture probabilities. The grid design was least biased (-10.5%), but imprecise (CV 21.2%), and used most effort (16,100 trap-nights). The targeted configuration was more biased (-17.3%), but most precise (CV 12.3%), with least effort (7,000 trap-nights). Targeted sampling generated encounter rates four times higher, and capture and recapture probabilities 11% and 60% higher than grid sampling, in a sampling frame 88% smaller. Bears had unequal probability of capture with both sampling designs, partly because some bears never had traps available to sample them. Hence, grid and targeted sampling generated abundance indices, not estimates. Overall, targeted sampling provided the most accurate and affordable design to index abundance. Targeted sampling may offer an alternative method to index the abundance of other species inhabiting expansive and inaccessible landscapes elsewhere, provided their attraction to resource concentrations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/129/', ['Conservation Biology'], [u'United States Fish and Wildlife Service', u'Alaska Department of Fish and Game', u'Department of Biological Sciences, New Jersey Institute of Technology', u'Alaska Department of Fish and Game']]
[u'Developing appropriate conservation measures for the seasonal whale shark feeding aggregation in Seychelles using ecological modeling tools', ['Georgia C.A. French', 'Joanna K Bluemel', 'David Rowat'], u'2013-11-27', u'Background: The whale shark feeding aggregation in the Seychelles has been studied in detail since 2002, including aerial survey and collection of environmental data. In these coastal waters previous tagging studies have shown whale sharks spend considerable time in the top 10m of water (44-60% of daylight hours). Although protected locally there is currently no management structure to conserve them outside of protected areas. This is the first attempt to develop Temporary Protected Areas using statistical modeling of their ecological distribution to conserve the aggregation.\nMethods: Data on whale shark occurrence and distribution were collected via standardized aerial surveys from microlight aircraft that also recorded locations of surface-feeding schools of fish and environmental variables. These data were input into Geographical Information System (GIS) software to create density distribution maps; further layers generated included distance from the coastline, and chlorophyll-a (Chl-a) concentration (from MODIS satellite imagery). MAXENT ecological modeling software and Kernel Density Estimate analysis were used to produce a habitat suitability map and probability distribution estimate. The MAXENT model was tested using pseudo-absence data in a binomial generalized linear model.\nResults: Chl-a concentration, distance from coast and fish schools were all found to influence whale shark presence and Maxent results closely matched those from the Kernel Density Estimate analysis. Predictions of suitable habitat for whale sharks avoided higher Chl-a concentrations, but showed positive correlations with schools of fish, possibly acting as a direct indication of zooplankton abundance. Whale sharks preferentially selected feeding areas close to the coast.\nConclusion: Maxent and Kernel Density Estimates can provide useful tools to guide the development of appropriate conservation and management of this species that take into consideration temporal behavior and ecology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/125/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Marine Conservation Society Seychelles']]
[u'Perioperative morbidity and mortality of cardiothoracic surgery in patients with a do-not-resuscitate order', ['Bryan G Maxwell', 'Robert L. Lobato', 'Molly B. Cason', 'Jim K. Wong'], u'2013-11-27', u'Background: Do-not-resuscitate (DNR) orders are often active in patients with multiple comorbidities and a short natural life expectancy, but limited information exists as to how often these patients undergo high-risk operations and of the perioperative outcomes in this population. Methods: Using comprehensive inpatient administrative data from the Public Discharge Data file (years 2005 through 2010) of the California Office of Statewide Health Planning and Development, which includes a dedicated variable recording DNR status, we identified cohorts of DNR patients who underwent major cardiac or thoracic operations and compared them to age- and procedure-matched comparison cohorts. The primary study outcome was in-hospital mortality. Results: DNR status was not uncommon in cardiac (n=2,678, 1.1% of all admissions for cardiac surgery, age 71.6 \xb1 15.9 years) and thoracic (n=3,129, 3.7% of all admissions for thoracic surgery, age 73.8 \xb1 13.6 years) surgical patient populations. Relative to controls, patients who were DNR experienced significantly greater in-hospital mortality after cardiac (37.5% vs. 11.2%, p<0.0001) and thoracic (25.4% vs. 6.4%) operations. DNR status remained an independent predictor of in-hospital mortality on multivariate analysis after adjustment for baseline and comorbid conditions in both the cardiac (OR 4.78, 95% confidence interval 4.21-5.41, p<0.0001) and thoracic (OR 6.11, 95% confidence interval 5.37-6.94, p<0.0001) cohorts. Conclusions: DNR status is associated with worse outcomes of cardiothoracic surgery even when controlling for age, race, insurance status, and serious comorbid disease. DNR status appears to be a marker of substantial perioperative risk, and may warrant substantial consideration when framing discussions of surgical risk and benefit, resource utilization, and biomedical ethics surrounding end-of-life care.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/128/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Emergency and Critical Care', 'Palliative Care', 'Public health', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine, Johns Hopkins University', u'Department of Anesthesiology, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center', u'Department of Anesthesiology, Perioperative and Pain Medicine, Stanford University']]
[u'S-nitrosylation-impaired autophagy: An alternative mechanism underlying aging?', ['Qing-Ping Zeng'], u'2013-11-26', u"Aging is mysterious with unknown managing patterns. A surprising finding on the tune mode of autophagy by S-nitrosylation is a distinctive step towards the interpretation of the mechanism underlying aging and age-related diseases. This commentary article will discuss, in a wider sense, the implications of S-nitrosylation- and nitration-switched dysfunction of proteins/enzymes in neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's diseases (HD) and Parkinson's disease (PD).", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/121/', ['Cell Biology', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Metabolic Sciences', 'Neurology', 'Pathology'], [u'Tropical Medicine Institute, Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine']]
[u'By-catch in a recreational fishery: an unmonitored source of mortality.', ['Malcolm L McCallum', 'Gina M Worley', 'Barroq Safi', 'Kris Dickens', 'Jason Jones', 'Jamie L McCallum'], u'2013-11-26', u'The purpose of this study was to infer the possible impact of unmonitored discard of by-catch on a recreational fishery. We recorded by-catch of fishes at a recreational fishery in Northeast Texas, statistically analyzed them, and then projected estimates of mortality if our observations represent a general pattern of behavior. Anglers discarded nine species of fishes during our study. The most frequently discarded fish were Gizzard Shad and Freshwater Drum. Four species of game fish were among the discarded species, but only Channel Catfish and Hybrid Striped Bass composed a large portion of the discarded fishes. Based on our observations, recreational fishing can produce a large amount of by-catch throughout the year and potentially pose an important unmonitored source of fish mortality.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/120/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences'], [u'Environmental Studies, University of Illinois at Springfield', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Stephen F Austin State University', u'Department of Biological Sciences, UT Health Science Center - San Antonio', u'Texarkana Water and Utilities', u'School of Medicine & Health Sciences, University of North Dakota', u'Department of Biology and Agriculture, University of Central Missouri']]
[u'Diet and kwashiorkor: a prospective study from rural DR Congo', ['Hallgeir Kismul', 'Jan Van den Broeck', 'Torleif Markussen Lunde'], u'2013-11-26', u'The etiology of kwashiorkor remains enigmatic and longitudinal studies examining potential causes of kwashiorkor are scarce. Using historical, longitudinal study data from the rural area of Bwamanda, Democratic Republic of Congo, we investigated the potential causal association between diet and the development of kwashiorkor in 5 657 preschool children followed 3-monthly during 15 months.We compared dietary risk factors for kwashiorkor with those of marasmus. Kwashiorkor was diagnosed as pitting oedema of the ankles; marasmus as abnormal visibility of skeletal structures and palpable wasting of the gluteus muscle. A food frequency questionnaire was administered 3-monthly to record the consumption of the 41 locally most frequent food items. We specified Hanley-Miettinen smooth-in-time risk models containing potential causal factors, including food items, specialmeals prepared for the child, breastfeeding, disease status, nutritional status, birth rank, age, season and number of meals. Bayesian Information Criteria identified the most plausible causal model of why some children developed kwashiorkor.In a descriptive analysis of the diet at the last dietary assessment prior to development of kwashiorkor, the diet of children who developed kwashiorkor was characterized by a low intake of sweet potatoes, papaya and \u201cother vegetables\u201d [0.0% , 2.3% (95%CI: 0.4, 12.1) and 2.3% (95%CI: 0.4, 12.1)] in comparison with children who did not develop kwashiorkor [6.8% (95%CI: 6.4, 7.2), 15.5% (95%CI: 15, 16.1) and 15.1% (95%CI: 14.6, 15.7)] or children who developed marasmus [4.5% (95%CI 2.6, 7.5) 11.8% (95%CI: 8.5, 16.0) and 17.6% (95%CI: 13.7, 22.5)]. Sweet potatoes and papaya have high \u03b2-Carotene content and so may some of \u201cthe other vegetables\u201d. We found that a risk model containing an age function, length/height-for age Z-score, consumption of sweet potatoes, papaya or other vegetables , duration of this consumption and its interaction term, was the most plausible model. Among children aged aged 10-42 months, the risk of developing kwashiorkor increased with longer non-consumption of theses foods.The analysis was repeated with only children who developed marasmus as the reference series, yielding similar results. Our study supports that \u03b2-Carotene  may play an important role in the protection against kwashiorkor development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/119/', ['Epidemiology', 'Global Health', 'Nutrition'], [u'Centre for International Health, Centre for International Health, University of Bergen']]
[u'Humoral immunity is the primary means of heterologous Propionibacterium acnes vaccination against Actinobacillus  pleuropneumoniae infection in pig', ['Linxi Li', 'Xin Feng', 'Fang Xie', 'Jingmin Gu', 'Yu Gao', 'Liancheng Lei', 'Wenyu Han'], u'2013-11-26', u'Objective: To analyze the immunoprotection of pigs by heterologous P. acnes vaccination against A. pleuropneumoniae infection, by vaccine and infection in pig. Methods: 12 five-week-old healthy pigs were randomly divided into 2 groups, of which 1 group (n=6) was vaccinated twice with living P. acnes and the other group served as a non-vaccinated control (n=6). Both groups were experimentally infected with A. pleuropneumoniae (serotype 1, 5*107 CFU, CCVC 259) then the clinical symptoms and pathological changes were monitored. Results: Compared to the control group, the vaccination group showed significantly reduced clinical symptoms and pathological changes. The P. acnes-vaccinated group showed a significant increase in the levels of specific serum antibody titer against A. pleuropneumoniae soluble antigen and serum IL-2 and IL-4 concentration. Conclusion: Immunization with heterologous P. acnes enabled an effective humoral immune response against A. pleuropneumoniae infection in pigs.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/118/', ['Veterinary Medicine'], [u'College of Veterinary Medicine, Jilin University', u'State Key Laboratory of Veterinary Biotechnology, Division of Bacterial Diseases, Harbin Veterinary Research Institute, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences']]
[u'Composable languages for bioinformatics: the NYoSh experiment', ['Manuele Simi', 'Fabien Campagne'], u'2013-11-25', u'Language Workbenches (LWs) are software engineering tools that help domain experts develop solutions to various classes of problems. Some of these tools focus on non-technical users and provide languages to help organize knowledge while other workbenches provide means to create new programming languages. A key advantage of language workbenches is that they support the seamless composition of independently developed languages. This capability is useful when developing programs that can benefit from different levels of abstraction. We reasoned that language workbenches could be useful to develop bioinformatics software solutions. In order to evaluate the potential of language workbenches in bioinformatics, we tested a prominent workbench by developing an alternative to shell scripting. To illustrate what LWs and Language Composition can bring to bioinformatics, we report on our design and development of NYoSh (Not Your ordinary Shell). NYoSh was implemented as a collection of languages that can be composed to write programs as expressive and concise as shell scripts. This manuscript offers a concrete illustration of the advantages and current minor drawbacks of using the MPS LW. For instance, we found that we could implement an environment-aware editor for NYoSh that can assist the programmers when developing scripts for specific execution environments. This editor further provides semantic error detection and can be compiled interactively with an automatic build and deployment system. In contrast to shell scripts, NYoSh scripts can be written in a modern development environment, supporting context dependent intentions and can be extended seamlessly by end-users with new abstractions and language constructs. We further illustrate language extension and composition with LWs by presenting a tight integration of NYoSh scripts with the GobyWeb system. The NYoSh Workbench prototype, which implements a fully featured integrated development environment for NYoSh is distributed at http://nyosh.campagnelab.org .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/112/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Science', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'The HRH Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal Bin Abdulaziz Alsaud Institute for Computational Biomedicine, Weill Cornell Medical College', u'Department of Physiology and Biophysics, Weill Cornell Medical College']]
[u'There and back again: Putting the vectorial movement planning hypothesis to a critical test', ['Eva-Maria Kobak', 'Simone Cardoso de Oliveira'], u'2013-11-24', u'Based on psychophysical evidence about how learning of visuomotor transformation generalizes, it has been suggested that movements are planned on the basis of movement direction and magnitude, i.e. the vector connecting movement origin and targets. This notion is also known under the term \u201cvectorial planning hypothesis\u201d. Previous psychophysical studies, however, have included separate areas of the workspace for training movements and testing the learning. This study eliminates this confounding factor by investigating the transfer of learning from forward to backward movements in a center-out-and-back task, in which the workspace for both movements is completely identical. Visual feedback allowed for learning only during movements towards the target (forward movements) and not while moving back to the origin (backward movements). When subjects learned the visuomotor rotation in forward movements, initial directional errors in backward movements also decreased to some degree. This learning effect in backward movements occurred predominantly when backward movements featured the same movement directions as the ones trained in forward movements (i.e., when opposite targets were presented). This suggests that learning was transferred in a direction specific way, supporting the notion that movement direction is the most prominent parameter used for motor planning.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/114/', ['Neuroscience'], [u'Bernstein Center Freiburg, University of Freiburg', u'Department of Bioengineering, Imperial College', u'BrainLinks-BrainTools, Cluster of Excellence, University of Freiburg']]
[u'The more things change the more they stay the same: Assessing the immediate impact of the licensing act (2004) on attendances to accident & emergency departments', ['Robert Patton', 'John Strang', 'Catherine Birtles', 'Mike Crawford'], u'2013-11-22', u'This paper reports on a survey of 39 Accident and Emergency departments (AED) in England regarding presentations over a three month time period before and after the changes in the Licensing Act (2003) which came into force in November 2005. The time periods reported are January \u2013 March 2005 (the PRE period) and January \u2013 March 2006 (the POST period). Our data indicated NO significant change in the number of attendances that could be related to alcohol consumption (hereafter referred to as \u2018attendances\u2019) in the first two months following increased availability. In the third month there was a significant decrease in \u2018attendances\u2019. There was considerable variation in the changes in \u2018attendances\u2019 between participating AEDs. The pattern of \u2018attendances\u2019 on weekdays (Monday \u2013 Thursday) was unchanged. Following increased availability \u2018attendances\u2019 on Saturday fell, but increased on Fridays and Sundays. There were no changes in the pattern of \u2018attendances\u2019 across the 24 hour period, with most patients presenting at around Midday. Rates of \u2018attendances\u2019 for Assault and Head Injury fell significantly following the change in availability. The number of \u2018attendances\u2019 where alcohol was specifically mentioned increased significantly during the POST period. Prior to the increase in availability, the number of \u2018attendances\u2019 where alcohol was specifically mentioned peaked sharply around Midnight. Following the change in the law, there was a general increase in such \u2018attendances\u2019 from 11PM through to 3AM. Although there was a general increase in alcohol specified \u2018attendances\u2019 across the week, there was a significant increase in such \u2018attendances\u2019 on a Sunday. Data from one Northern and one Southern Local Ambulance Service was provided to complement the data obtained from individual AEDs. The number of alcohol related ambulance call outs for the LAS and NEAS increased following the change in the law.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/107/', ['Emergency and Critical Care', 'Health Policy', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public health'], [u"National Addiction Centre, King's College London", u'Imperial College London']]
[u'Spectral characteristics of the mutant protein D-glucose/D-galactose-binding protein GGBP/H152C with an attached fluorescent dye BADAN: Influence of external conditions', ['Alexander V Fonin', 'Olga V Stepanenko', 'Olga I Povarov', 'Catherine A Volova', 'Elizaveta M Filippova', 'Grigory S Bublikov', 'Irina M. Kuznetsova', 'Alexander P Demchenko', 'Konstantin K Turoverov'], u'2013-11-22', u'The mutant form of the D-glucose/D-galactose-binding protein GGBP/H152C with the solvatochromic dye BADAN attached to cysteine residue Cys 152 can be used as a potential base for a sensitive element of glucose biosensor system. We investigated the influence of various factors on the physical-chemical properties of GGBP/H152C-BADAN and on its complexation with glicose . The high affinity (K d = 8.5 \u03bcM) and rapid binding of glucose ( even in solutions with a viscosity value of 4 cP, the formation time of the protein-glucose is not longer than three seconds ) allows for theuse of GGBP/H152C-BADAN to determine the sugar content in biological fluids extracted using transdermal techniques. It was shown that the changes in the ionic strength and pH within the physiological range did not have a significant influence on the fluorescent characteristics of GGBP/H152C-BADAN. The mutant form GGBP/H152C has relatively low resistance to denaturation action. This result emphasizes the need to find more stable proteins for the creation of a sensitive element for a glucose biosensor system.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/111/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biophysics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Laboratory of Structural Dynamics, Stability and Folding of Proteins, Institute of Cytology, Russian Academy of Science', u'Department of Physical Electronics, St. Petersburg State Polytechnical University', u'Department of Biophysics, St. Petersburg State Polytechnical University', u'Laboratory of Nanobiotechnologies, Palladin Institute of Biochemistry of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine']]
[u'The Xanthomonas Ax21 protein is processed by the general secretory system and is secreted in association with outer membrane vesicles', ['Ofir Bahar', 'Rory N Pruitt', 'Dee Dee Luu', 'Benjamin Schwessinger', 'Randy Ruan', 'Lisa Fontaine-Bodin', 'Ralf Koebnik', 'Pamela Ronald'], u'2013-11-22', u'Pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) play an important role in detecting invading pathogens and mounting a robust defense response to restrict infection. In rice, one of the best characterized PRRs is XA21, a leucine rich repeat receptor-like kinase that confers broad-spectrum resistance to multiple strains of the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). In 2009 we reported that an Xoo protein, called Ax21, was secreted by a type I-secretion system and that it served to a ctivate X A 21 -mediated immunity. This report has recently been retracted. Here we present data that corrects our previous model. We first show that Ax21 secretion does not depend on the predicted type I secretion system and that it is processed by the general secretion (Sec) system. We further show that Ax21 is an outer membrane protein, secreted in association with outer membrane vesicles. Finally, we provide data showing that ax21 knockout strains do not overcome XA21-mediated immunity.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/109/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Genetics', 'Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Department of Plant Pathology, University of California, Davis', u'UMR 186 R\xe9sistance des Plantes aux Bioagresseurs, Institut de Recherche pour le D\xe9veloppement']]
[u'Identification and management of physical health problems among an injecting drug using population', ['Robert Patton'], u'2013-11-21', u'Injecting drug use is highly prevalent in London and is associated with specific physical health problems. These problems are related to the toxicity of the substances, their mode of consumption and as a consequence of the drug taking lifestyle. Hepatitis B and C viral infections are common among drug users due to sharing of both needles and other drug taking paraphernalia. Hepatitis B infection can be prevented by immunisation. Hepatitis C infection can interact with alcohol consumption to accelerate liver damage. Sharing of drug injection equipment is high (up to 78%). Injecting drug users (IDUs) that live close to needle exchanges are significantly less likely to engage in sharing activities than those that live further away. Drug users are at particular risk of developing poor dental health, which is associated with morbidity and mortality, particularly cardio-vascular conditions and respiratory disease. Many female drug users have been involved with the commercial sex industry and are at risk of contracting blood borne viruses. Drug users who also use alcohol have an increased likelihood of physical morbidity and injury / trauma. Problem drug users have an increased likelihood of experiencing physical morbidity, but are less likely to engage with primary care services. Barriers to accessing primary care include convenience (access), apathy, procrastination and \u201cself-medication\u201d. Drug users are more likely to report physical health complications at an Accident & Emergency department (AED) than at a GP practice. Further investigation of local AEDs is required to ascertain their potential for assessing and referring drug users to specialist services and other primary care providers. Integration of primary care and drug treatment services may encourage drug users to engage in treatment for physical morbidity and promote retention within addictions services. Physical health of drug users may be assessed as part of a formal induction to treatment services, or opportunistically as appropriate. Drug users presenting to primary care services for prescriptions related to their addiction may not experience such an assessment. Increasing GPs knowledge and skills can lead to greater implementation of screening practices. The provision of primary care services to clients attending addiction treatment centres can lead to improvements in drug users\u2019 physical health and enhanced treatment outcomes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/108/', ['Infectious Diseases', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public health'], [u"National Addiction Centre, King's College London"]]
[u'Molecular modeling of the Plasmodium falciparum pre-mRNA splicing and nuclear export factor PfU52', ['Alain Narcisse Newo Soufo'], u'2013-11-21', u'UAP56/SUB2 is a DExD/H-box RNA helicase that is critically involved in pre-mRNA splicing and mRNA nuclear export. This helicase is broadly conserved and essential in many eukaryotic lineages, including protozoan and metazoan parasites. Previous research suggests that helicases from parasites could be promising drug targets for treating parasitic diseases. Accordingly, characterizing the structure and function of these proteins is of interest for structure-based, de novo design of new lead compounds. Here, we used homology modeling to construct a three-dimensional structure of PfU52 (PMDB ID: PM0079288), the Plasmodium falciparum ortholog of UAP56/SUB2. Comparative in silico analysis revealed that although PfU52 shared many physicochemical, structural and dynamic similarities with its human homolog, it also displayed some unique features that could be exploited for drug design.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/106/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Molecular Biology', 'Parasitology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Beckman Research Institute of City of Hope', u'National Coalition of Independent Scholars (NCIS)']]
[u'Changing paradigms in the supply of sanitation to marginalised groups - 30 years of challenges in Mumbai', ['Mahesh Nath Singh', 'Aditya Singh', 'Anand Jagtap', 'Pragya Pranjali'], u'2013-11-20', u'Water-borne and poor sanitation related diseases still account for much of the morbidity and mortality in India. Out of the 300 million urban dwellers in India, 22.6% reside in slums. This paper aims to examine the sanitation conditions of slums in the city of Mumbai. About 6.9 million slum dwellers are residing in almost 2000 slum pockets in Mumbai, which constitutes 54% of the population of the city. Most of the slum households depend on inadequate public toilet facilities of very poor quality. Efforts and investments in sanitation have failed to alleviate the situation, as the local population has not been involved. Only recently a demand-driven approach has been applied largely inspired by experiences in rural sanitation programmes. Still supply-driven initiatives by short-term political interests are, to some extent, eroding the resources available for sanitation. However, experiences from the last decade locally and globally, reveal that the demand-driven model is a way forward.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/105/', ['Global Health', 'Health Policy', 'Public health'], [u'International Institute for Population Sciences', u'University of Portsmouth', u'Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai', u'Social Research Institute- IMRB International']]
[u'spliceR: An R package for classification of alternative splicing and prediction of coding potential from RNA-seq data', ['Kristoffer Vitting-Seerup', 'Bo T Porse', 'Albin Sandelin', 'Johannes E Waage'], u'2013-12-17', u'Background: With the increasing depth and decreasing costs of RNA-sequencing researchers are now able to profile the transcriptome with unprecedented detail. These advances not only allow for precise approximation of gene expression levels, but also for the characterization of alternative transcript usage/switching between conditions. Recent software improvements in full-length transcript deconvolution prompted us to develop spliceR, an R package for classification of alternative splicing and prediction of coding potential.\nResults: spliceR uses the full-length transcripts output from RNA-seq assemblers, to detect single- and multiple exon skipping, alternative donor and acceptor sites, intron retention, alternative first or last exon usage, and mutually exclusive exon events. For each of these events spliceR also annotates the genomic coordinates of the differentially spliced elements facilitating downstream sequence analysis. Furthermore, isoform fraction values are calculated for effective post-filtering, i.e. identification of transcript switching between conditions. Lastly spliceR predicts the coding potential, as well as the potential nonsense mediated decay (NMD) sensitivity of each transcript.\nConclusions: spliceR is a easy-to-use tool that allows detection of alternative splicing, transcript switching and NMD sensitivity from RNA-seq data, extending the usability of RNA-seq and assembly technologies. spliceR is implemented as an R package and is freely available from the Bioconductor repository (http://www.bioconductor.org/packages/2.13/bioc/html/spliceR.html).', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/80/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'The Bioinformatics Centre, University of Copenhagen', u'Biotech Research and Innovation Centre (BRIC), University of Copenhagen', u'The Danish Stem Cell Centre (DanStem) Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen', u'The Finsen Laboratory, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen']]
[u'Node-Match Tool', ['Asankhaya Sharma'], u'2013-11-20', u'We present a tool Node-Match that can do ontology matching using node ranking over graphical representation of the ontologies. Simple ontology matching algorithms are based on lexical measures that only consider text similarity. Taking the shape and structure of the ontology into account while matching can lead to better results [1, 2, 3]. Node-Match illustrates the difference between the two approaches. It is based on S-Match [4] an open source toolkit for lightweight ontology matching and alignment. S-Match supports a rich GUI for designing lightweight ontologies and several ontology alignment algorithms. We use the Department Ontology from the running example in [1] to show the difference between difference ontology matching algorithms.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/104/', ['Computational Science'], [u'NIT Warangal']]
[u'An aerial view: Insights into the effects of ecotourism on the behavior of whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) in Seychelles', ['Joanna K. Bluemel', 'Georgia C.A. French', 'David Rowat'], u'2013-11-19', u'Background: Worldwide, whale shark encounters are a highly sought ecotourism activity. Encounter Codes are implemented to help reduce anthropogenic disturbances. To assess their design and effectiveness, aerial behavioral surveys provide an excellent platform to identify behaviors with little or no observer induced bias. Methods: Five-minute focal-animal behavioral surveys were conducted during micro-light aerial surveys of whale sharks in Seychelles, both in the absence (n=26) and presence (n=24) of Marine Conservation Society, Seychelles research/ecotourism boats and in-water swimmers (following boat and in-water Encounter Codes). Whale shark behaviors with no anthropogenic influences were identified from encounters without boats and recorded as the percentage of survey time. Ordinal logistic regression (OLR) was used to determine whether the proportion of time sharks spent on the surface was dependent upon environmental, morphometric and/or anthropogenic predictors. Differences between the surface swimming time before and after arrival of a boat were also assessed using a paired t-test. Results: The altitude of the aircraft was not found to influence whale shark behavior, neither did environmental factors. There was a significant probability of whale sharks spending shorter periods of time swimming on the surface when in the presence of boats and in-water swimmers (OLR p-value<0.001, paired t-test p-value<0.001). Smaller-sized sharks spent considerably longer periods of time on the surface than larger sharks (p-value<0.05), which was more evident in the absence of anthropogenic influences. Conclusions: Aerial survey methods permit monitoring of behavior without observer induced bias, enabling critical evaluation of encounter management. Boat presence and in-water swimmers did affect the behavior of sharks suggesting that experimental examination of encounter regulations can help determine optimal restrictions to minimize the disturbance to this protected species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/103/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Anthropology', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Marine Conservation Society Seychelles']]
[u'Effects of three commonly used diuretics on the urinary proteome', ['Xundou Li', 'Mindi Zhao', 'Menglin Li', 'Lulu Jia', 'Youhe Gao'], u'2013-11-19', u'Biomarker is the measurable change associated with a physiological or pathophysiological process. Unlike blood which has mechanisms to keep the internal environment homeostatic, urine is more likely to reflect changes of the body. In other words, urine is likely to be a better biomarker source than blood. However, the urinary proteome are affected by many factors. In this study, the effects of three commonly used diuretics (furosemide, hydrochlorothiazide and spirolactone ) on the urinary proteome were analyzed in rats. Urine samples were collected before and after the intragastric administration of diuretics at therapeutic doses and analyzed using LC-MS/MS. Based on quantification by Progenesis LC-MS software, there are 7, 5 and 2 proteins with the p value \u22640.05, a fold change \u22652, a spectral count \u22655 and FDR \u22641%, respectively. Most their human orthologs were considered to be stable in the healthy human urinary proteome. 10 of the 14 proteins have been reported as disease biomarkers in previous studies. So the effects of diuretics should be given more attention in future urinary protein biomarkers studies. The effects of diuretics on urinary proteome are different which can provide clues to elucidate the mechanisms of the diuretics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/102/', ['Biochemistry', 'Nephrology'], [u'Department  of  Physiology  and  Pathophysiology, Institute  of  Basic  Medical  Sciences,  Chinese  Academy  of  Medical  Sciences,  Peking Union Medical College']]
[u'Myoclonus-like involuntary movements under subarachnoid block completely subsided after midazolam administration in a patient undergoing cesarean section: a case report', ['Kiichi Hirota'], u'2013-11-17', u'Involuntary movement during and after neuraxial anesthesia, such as spinal and epidural anesthesia, is rarely observed. In this report, we describe a case of myoclonus-like involuntary movement of the upper extremities in a patient undergoing a planned repeat cesarean section under spinal anesthesia with bupivacaine that completely subsided after 2mg midazolam administration. The myoclonus-like movement never recurred or caused any apparent neurological side effects. No abnormal sensation or spontaneous pain of the upper extremities was observed. The patient was discharged on foot on post-operative day 3.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/101/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Gynecology and Obstetrics', 'Neurology'], [u'Department of Anesthesiology, Kansai Medical University']]
[u'Germination of Acacia harpophylla (Brigalow) seeds in relation to soil water potential: Implications for rehabilitation of a threatened ecosystem', ['Sven Arnold', 'Yolana Kailichova', 'Thomas Baumgartl'], u'2013-11-14', u'Initial soil water conditions play a critical role when seeding is the primary approach of revegetation on post-mining areas. In some semi-arid climates, such as the Brigalow Belt Bioregion in eastern Australia, extensive areas are affected by surface mine developments. Together with erratic rainfall patterns and clayey soils water deficit is the primary environmental stressor, which makes the Brigalow Belt representative for other water-limited ecosystems worldwide. Apart from other environmental stressors germination is governed by the water potential of the surrounding soil material. While previous studies confirmed the high tolerance of Brigalow (Acacia harpophylla) seeds to a broad range of temperature and salinity, the question remains how soil water potential triggers seed germination. In this study, we used three replicates of 50 seeds of predominant native Brigalow to investigate germination in relation to water potential as environmental stressor. Solutions of Polyethylene Glycol (PEG 6000) were applied to expose seeds to nine osmotic water potentials ranging from soil water saturation (0 kPa) and field capacity (-10 to -30 kPa) to the permanent wilting point (-1,500 kPa). We measured germinability (number of germinated seeds relative to total number of seeds per lot) and mean germination time (mean time required for maximum germination of a seed lot) to quantify germination. Based on these empirical data we estimated the parameters of the hydrotime model, which facilitates to simulate timing and success of seed emergence. Our findings indicate that Brigalow seeds are remarkably water stress tolerant with germination being observed at a water potential as low as -1,500 kPa. Likewise, the average base water potential of a seed population (hydrotime model) was very low and ranged between -1,533 kPa and -1,451 kPa. In general, Brigalow seeds germinate opportunistically over a broad range of abiotic conditions related to temperature, salinity, and water availability. Direct seeding and germination of native plants on post-mining land may be an effective and economically viable solution in order to re-establish plant communities. However, due to their ability of asexual reproduction, alternative rehabilitation approaches such as transplantation of whole soil-root compartments may become attractive for restoration ecologists to achieve safe, stable, and non-polluting ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/100/', ['Ecosystem Science', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Soil Science'], [u'Centre for Mined Land Rehabilitation, The University of Queensland']]
[u'Successful perioperative airway management in a patient with angiomatous macroglossia for laser ablation under general anesthesia', ['Kiichi Hirota'], u'2013-11-14', u'Macroglossia is defined as an abnormal enlargement of the tongue that predominantly affects pediatric patients and is not frequent in adult patients. Hypothyroidism and hyperpituitarism may cause macroglossia in adults. In addition, infiltration of the tongue by abnormal tissues, including angiomatous and lymphatic malformations and amyloidosis, is a major cause of macroglossia, particularly in adults. Here we describe the case of a 63-year-old male patient with massive macroglossia due to tongue hemangioma who underwent laser ablation under general anesthesia. Elaborate preanesthetic anatomical and functional airway evaluation facilitated successful airway management in this patient, even in the presence of massive macroglossia.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/99/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Emergency and Critical Care', 'Otorhinolaryngology'], [u'Department of Anesthesiology, Kansai Medical University']]
[u'Regional connectivity of whale sharks demonstrated using photo-identification \u2013 Western Atlantic, 1999 - 2013', ['Jennifer McKinney', 'Eric R Hoffmayer', 'Jason Holmberg', 'Rachel Graham', 'Rafael de la Parra', 'Beatriz Galvan Pastoriza', 'Steve Fox', 'Simon Pierce', 'Alistair D.M. Dove'], u'2013-11-13', u'Background: Although whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) occur circum-globally, most studies focus on feeding aggregations in small regional areas. Photo identification is a proven tool in assessing population size and structure. While population estimates have been obtained for individual aggregation sites, there has been a lack of broader estimates despite known movement. The aim of this work is to demonstrate connectivity throughout the Gulf of Mexico (GOM) and Caribbean, and provide the first regional population estimate. Methods: Photographs submitted to the ECOCEAN Whale Shark Photo-ID Library Sightings were used to identify individual sharks using techniques described in Holmberg et al. (2009). Sightings data were used to assess the lagged identification rate (LIR) in order to investigate residency, regional mixing, population size, and transition probabilities using modules within SOCPROG 2.4. Results: Identifications from 1998 \u2013 2013, were obtained from Belize (n =132), Mexico (n=3642), Honduras (n = 360), and the USA (n=147). Fifty-four individual sharks were seen in more than one country and used for analysis. For the entire study area, LIR decreased rapidly between one and 64-127 (mean 94.4) days then slightly increased between 256-511 (mean 381.2) days, suggesting a near-annual resighting periodicity. Estimates of mean population size from the best-fitting model were 1897.39 \xb1 414.30 S.E. (95% C.I. 1191.77 \u2013 2784.03). Evidence suggests individual heterogeneity in movement patterns. Resightings were most likely to occur in the country where initial identification occurred, with the exception of Belize. The highest site fidelity was in Mexico, followed by USA. Conclusions: This study demonstrated individual heterogeneity, fidelity to initial identification site and regional linkages. These data suggest that national and regional cooperation is required for successful whale shark management in the West Atlantic.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/98/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Fisheries Management, Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries', u'Southeast Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service', u'Wild Me', u'Wildlife Conservation Society', u"Ch'ooj Ajauil AC", u'Utila Whale Shark Research', u'Marine Megafauna Foundation', u'Georgia Aquarium Research Center, Georgia Aquarium']]
[u'A linear sigmoid colon passage method by left twisting', ['Satoshi Awazu', 'Risa Araki', 'Toshihiko Awazu'], u'2013-11-12', u'We previously reported that the sigmoid-descending colon junction becomes linear and the colonoscope can be readily inserted into the descending colon in the left semiprone position. In addition, we encountered a situation whereby the sigmoid colon becomes more linear and the colonoscope can be more straightly inserted in the sigmoid colon when the colonoscope is inserted with twisting to the left in the left semiprone position. Therefore, our new insertion method was devised so that the colonoscope neutral position was rotated 45 degrees to the left compared to our conventional insertion method, and this method was performed to determine whether the colonoscope looping rate in the sigmoid colon can be reduced. The colonoscope looping rate in the sigmoid colon could be reduced by using our new insertion method. These results suggest that safer colonoscope insertion is possible by using our new insertion method compared with our conventional insertion method.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/97/', ['Gastroenterology and Hepatology'], [u'Department of Gastroenterology, Awazu Hospital', u'Department of Surgery, Awazu Hospital']]
[u'Seasonal habitat use of whale sharks in the northern Gulf of Mexico, USA 2003 - 2013', ['Jennifer A McKinney', 'Eric R Hoffmayer', 'Jim S Franks', 'Jill M Hendon', 'William B Driggers'], u'2013-11-07', u'Background: Reports of whale sharks (Rhincodon typus) in the northern Gulf of Mexico (GOM) date back to the 1930s. In 2003, the Northern Gulf of Mexico Whale Shark Research Program was established and began making directed efforts to document the regional occurrence, seasonal distribution and habitat preferences of whale sharks. Methods: Whale shark sightings data (WSS: 1989 \u2013 present; n=644) and tagging geoposition data (TD: 2009-2012; n=450) were used in seasonal kernel density (KD) analyses to delineate home range (95%) and core habitat (50%) use areas in the northern GOM. Kernel density estimation of distribution is a statistically robust manner of handling data sources with differing sampling designs (anecdotal vs. directed). Habitat use patterns from the two datasets were used to identify critical use areas. Results: In the study area, whale shark home range was 276,000 km2 (WSS) to 369,000 km2 (TD) in size, with 52,000 km2 (WSS) to 62,000 km2 (TD) being core habitat. Whale shark habitat use varied seasonally, with the largest home range occurring during summer (WSS: 213,000 km2) and fall (TD: 221,000 km2). Tag data revealed more winter habitat (75,000 km2) than the sightings dataset (41,000 km2), which was shifted further offshore to slope waters. Significant use patterns occurred along the continental shelf-edge, encompassing shelf-edge banks south of Louisiana, and near the mouth of the Mississippi River. Conclusions: The combination of sightings data and satellite tagging data represents an effective methodology for assessing seasonality of occurrence, distribution, and habitat use of whale sharks. Shelf-edge bank habitats were most commonly used by whale sharks in the region. Satellite tagging data provided additional evidence of connectivity between multiple jurisdictions, which lends support for international management of the species.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/93/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Fisheries Management, Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries', u'Southeast Fisheries Science Center, Mississippi Laboratories, National Marine Fisheries Service', u'Center for Fisheries Research and Development, Gulf Coast Research Laboratory, University of Southern Mississippi']]
[u'Biological Activities of East Indian Sandalwood Tree, Santalum album', ['Biswapriya B Misra', 'Satyahari Dey'], u'2013-11-12', u'The East Indian Sandalwood tree, Santalum album L. has been widely used in folk medicine for treatment of common colds, bronchitis, skin disorders, heart ailments, general weakness, fever, infection of the urinary tract, inflammation of the mouth and pharynx, liver and gallbladder complaints and other maladies. With more than 200 constituents, the essential oil is emerging as a biologically valuable active source of phytochemicals. Therapeutic potentials associated with this oil and its constituents promise future health care applications, as shown by recent pharmacological investigations, such as the roles of santalols in combating cancer, tumor, viral diseases, microbes, oxidants, as well as neuroleptic, skin nourishing agent and as dietary factors, thus supporting its traditional uses. The aim of this review is to comprehend and put forth, available information on biological activities of this plant from a pharmacological point of view for future directions in clinical applications.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/96/', ['Biotechnology', 'Plant Science', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Global Health', 'Pharmacology'], [u'Department of Biotechnology, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur', u'Department of Biology, University of Florida']]
[u'Dispersal patterns of insects after a major disturbance event is applied to a disturbance gradient that conformed to the intermediate disturbance hypothesis in an urban ecosystem', ['Tharaneetharan Dhanayarajan', 'Michael Parsram', 'Nathan N. L. Lo'], u'2013-11-12', u'Insects have been losing their habitats with the rapid expansion of many urban cities such as Toronto. This study aims at understanding the dispersal patterns insects take once they are placed under a heavy amount of disturbance. The use of power line corridors allows us to have a disturbance gradient within an urban city that allows us to observe the normal distribution of insects across the gradient and compare it to how their distribution patterns change once a disturbance has been applied. It is important in understanding insect dispersal patterns, because only then can we accurately create conservation strategies, and plan urban development to minimize the amount of damage done to insect populations. In this study, sweep nets, pan traps, and point counts were used to sample five areas of a disturbance gradient along a power line corridor. The experiment was conducted over three weeks and it was found that the gradient studied followed a quadratic distribution pattern predicted by the intermediate disturbance hypothesis, although with the application of disturbance, the insects diapered into an exponential type pattern in which the greatest abundance of insects were found in the area of least disturbance. The findings of this study have important implications in understanding the effects of disturbance on insects in urban ecosystems and are a step in the direction of forming a unified theory of insect/disturbance dynamics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/95/', ['Ecology'], [u'Department of Biology, York University']]
[u'Age estimation for Asian Cymbidium (Orchidaceae: Epidendroideae) with implementation of fossil data calibration using molecular markers (ITS2 & matK) implying phylogeographic inference', ['Devendra K Biswal', 'Jean V Marbaniang', 'Pramod Tandon'], u'2013-11-09', u'Abstract: Intercontinental dislocations between tropical regions harboring two-thirds of the flowering plants have always drawn attention from taxonomists and bio-geographers. The focus had always been on woody land plants rather than on herbs. Orchidaceae is one such family belonging to angiosperms, with an herbaceous habit and high species diversity in the tropics. Here, we investigate the evolutionary and bio-geographical history of the genus Cymbidium, which represents a monophyletic subfamily (Epidendroideae) of the orchids and comprises 50 odd species that are disjunctly distributed in tropical to temperate regions. A relatively well-resolved and highly supported phylogeny of Cymbidiums was reconstructed based on sequence analyses of internal transcribed spacer (ITS2) regions and maturaseK (matK) from the chloroplast region available on the public domain in GenBank at NCBI. Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) is one of the photosynthetic pathways regarded as adaptation to water stress in land plants. Hardly any information exists on correlations among the level of CAM activity, habitat, life form, and phylogenetic relationship of a plant group from an evolutionary perspective. This study examines a genus level analyses by integrating ITS and matK data to all fossil data available on orchids in a molecular Bayesian relaxed clock employed in BEAST and assessed divergence times for the genus Cymbidium with a focus on evolutionary plasticity of photosynthetic characters. Our study has enabled age estimations for the genus Cymbidum (12Ma) for the first time using BEAST by addition of previously analyzed two internal calibration points.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/94/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Bioinformatics Centre, North-Eastern Hill University', u'Department of Botany, Centre for Advanced Studies, North-Eastern Hill University']]
[u'Common mistakes in data presentation and statistical analysis: how can the BioStat Decision Tool help?', ['Siouxsie Wiles', 'Anne L Bishop'], u'2013-11-05', u'As medical and molecular microbiologists who regularly read the scientific literature, it is our impression that many published papers contain data that is inappropriately presented and/or analysed. This is borne out by a number of studies which indicate that typically at least half of published scientific articles that use statistical methods contain statistical errors. While there are an abundance of resources dedicated to explaining statistics to biologists, the evidence would suggest that they are largely ineffective. These resources tend to focus on how particular statistical tests work, with reams of complicated-looking mathematical formulae. In addition, many statisticians are unfamiliar with the application of statistical techniques to molecular microbiology, instead telling us we need more samples, which can be difficult both ethically and practically in fields that include animal work and painstaking sample collection. In an age where performing a statistical test merely requires clicking a button in a computer programme, it could be argued that what the vast majority of biologists need is not mathematical formulae but simple guidance on which buttons to click. We have developed an easy to follow decision chart that guides biologists through the statistical maze. Our practical and user friendly chart should prove useful not only to active researchers, but also to journal editors and reviewers to rapidly determine if data presented in a submitted manuscript has been correctly analysed.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/92/', ['Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Statistics'], [u'Molecular Medicine and Pathology, University of Auckland', u'Independent scholar, Independent scholar']]
[u'Whale shark (Rhincodon typus) behavior: A multi-year analysis of individuals at Georgia Aquarium', ['Michael P Black', 'Matthew Grober', 'Christian Schreiber', 'Chris Coco', 'Alistair Dove'], u'2013-11-01', u'Background. From the coastal seas near Taiwan to the 6.3 million gallon Ocean Voyager habitat at Georgia Aquarium in Atlanta, Georgia, whale sharks, Rhincodon typus, were brought in stages: two females arrived in June 2006 and two males in June 2007. The behavioral observations described in this study began in 2008 as the first reported observations in captivity to assist in husbandry and better understand whale shark behavior variation between individuals and across time.\nMethods. Two types of observations were made of the four sharks currently in the Georgia Aquarium Ocean Voyager habitat: 1) 15-minute focal observations throughout the day of individual sharks from a high gantry vantage point using Stopwatch+ software to time stamp all recorded behavior and 2) observations of swim speed, depth, and swimming direction for all sharks passing by a section of wall over longer periods of time (15 min-hours). Z-tests were used for inter-observer reliability.\nResults. For most traits, whale sharks demonstrated unique behavioral profiles that were consistent over many years, but, over the course of years, some of these behavioral traits changed for individual sharks. There were also daily changes in behavior that were consistent across days. For instance, whale sharks showed a clear anticipation of feeding time marked by increases in swimming speed prior to obvious cues of the feed (i.e. 1 hour prior). During observations recorded during the day, whale sharks spent the majority of their time swimming at or near the surface. Most spent relatively equal times swimming clockwise as they did counterclockwise. Swim speeds observed in the habitat were similar to the range of those estimated from work in the field.\nConclusion. Each shark in the habitat demonstrated a behavioral profile unique to that individual, and we have observed short-term and long-term consistent patterns as well as changes in some behavior. These observations increase our knowledge of whale shark behavior, assisting in the husbandry of these animals and giving a better understanding of individual differences, temporal changes, and interactions between sharks.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/88/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Neuroscience Institute, Georgia State University', u'Department of Biology, Georgia State University', u'Georgia Aquarium', u'Georgia Aquarium Research Center']]
[u'A within-subject comparison of seizure duration with etomidate and methohexital in electroconvulsive therapy', ['Kevin J Black'], u'2013-10-30', u'Objective: To determine whether etomidate is associated with longer seizures than methohexital in ECT anesthesia. Methods: Retrospective chart review in 39 patients who were switched from one anesthetic to the other. We compared motor and EEG seizure duration in the last ECT session on one anesthetic and the first session on the other anesthetic. Results: Motor seizures were about 10 seconds longer with etomidate (p < 0.05). However, few of the increases in seizure duration had obvious clinical import. Conclusions: Etomidate can lengthen ECT seizure time compared with methohexital, but the clinical significance of this observation requires further study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/87/', ['Anaesthesiology and Pain Management', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Psychiatry, Neurology, Radiology, and Anatomy & Neurobiology, Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Association between shell morphology of micro-land snails (genus Plectostoma) and their predator\u2019s predatory behaviour', ['Thor-Seng Liew', 'Menno Schilthuizen'], u'2013-10-24', u'Predator-prey interactions are among the main ecological interactions that shape the diversity of biological form. In many cases, the evolution of the mollusc shell form is presumably driven by predation. However, the adaptive significance of several uncommon, yet striking, shell traits of land snails are still poorly known. These include the distorted coiled \u201ctuba\u201d and the protruded radial ribs that can be found in micro-landsnails of the genus Plectostoma. Here, we experimentally tested whether these shell traits may act as defensive adaptations against predators. First, we identified the predators, namely, Atopos slugs and Pteroptyx beetle larvae, and their predatory strategies towards Plectostoma snails. Then, we characterised and quantified the possible anti-predation behaviour and shell traits of Plectostoma snails both in terms of their properties and efficiencies in defending against the Atopos slug predatory strategies, namely, shell-apertural entry and shell-drilling. The results showed that Atopos slugs would first attack the snail by shell-apertural entry, and, should this fail, shift to the energetically more costly shell-drilling strategy. We found that the shell tuba of Plectostoma snails is an effective defensive trait against shell-apertural entry attack. None of the snail traits, such as resting behaviour, shell thickness, shell tuba shape, shell rib density and intensity can protect the snail from the slug\u2019s shell-drilling attack. However, these traits could increase the predation costs to the slug. Further analysis on the shell traits revealed that the lack of effectiveness these anti-predation shell traits may be caused by a functional trade-off between shell traits under selection of two different predatory strategies. Lastly, we discuss our results in the framework of Red Queen predator-prey coevolution and escalation, and propose several key elements for future study.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/86/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute Biology Leiden, Leiden University', u'Terrestrial Zoology, Naturalis Biodiversity Center', u'Institute for Tropical Biology and Conservation, Universiti Malaysia Sabah']]
[u'Whale Shark Aggregations in the Northern Gulf of Mexico', ['Eric Hoffmayer', 'Jennifer A McKinney', 'James S. Franks', 'Jill Hendon', 'William B Driggers III'], u'2013-10-22', u'Background: The Northern Gulf of Mexico Whale Shark Research Program was initiated in 2003 to increase our knowledge of whale shark occurrence and distribution within the region. A primary goal was to obtain sightings data from \u201ccitizen scientists\u201d to guide directed research. Whale sharks are typically solitary animals, but are known to aggregate in areas of high prey abundance. Methods: Whale shark sightings data reported from 2003 to present were compiled. Aggregations were defined as more than one whale shark, and large aggregations were defined as 10 or more sharks, observed at a specific location at the same time. Efforts were made to encounter aggregations to determine size and sex assemblage of the sharks, and to collect plankton samples to identify potential prey. Results: To date we have over 600 whale shark sightings reports and four research encounters of large aggregations. Whale shark aggregations represented 31% of reported sightings, 25% of which were large aggregations between 10-150 individuals. All of thereported large aggregations occurred during summer, almost exclusively along the continental shelf edge, with 41% occurring at Ewing Bank. Three out of the four scientific encounters occurred at Ewing Bank (2009, 2010, 2013). Aggregations were dominated by immature males that were primarily feeding on Euthynnus alletteratus eggs. Conclusions: The use of sightings data provided by \u201ccitizen scientists\u201d has proven to bean inexpensive and effective technique for identifying whale shark aggregation locations in the northern Gulf of Mexico. Aggregation assemblages appear to consist of largely juvenile males that were feeding on tuna eggs. Similar to other regions, it is unknown if whale sharks in the northern Gulf of Mexico primarily consist of juveniles or if juveniles simply dominate these large feeding aggregations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/85/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Southeast Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service', u'Fisheries Management, Louisiana Department of Wildlife and Fisheries', u'Center for Fisheries Research, The University of Southern Mississippi']]
[u'The Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC) 2013', ['Nomi L Harris', 'Peter J A Cock', 'Brad A Chapman', 'Jeremy Goecks', 'Hans-Rudolf Hotz', 'Hilmar Lapp'], u'2013-10-20', u'The 14th annual Bioinformatics Open Source Conference (BOSC) was held in Berlin in July 2013, bringing together over 100 bioinformatics researchers, developers and users of open source software. Since its inception in 2000, BOSC has been organised as a Special Interest Group (SIG) satellite meeting preceding the large International Conference on Intelligent Systems for Molecular Biology (ISMB), which is the annual meeting of the International Society for Computational Biology (ISCB). BOSC provides bioinformatics developers with a forum for communicating the results of their latest efforts to the wider research community, and a focused environment for developers and users to interact and share ideas about standards, software development practices, and practical techniques for solving bioinformatics problems. As in previous years, BOSC 2013 was preceded by a Codefest, a two day hackathon that brings together bioinformatics open source project developers and members of the community and allows them to work collaboratively and achieve greater interoperability between tools developed by different groups.\nThe session topics at BOSC 2013 included several that have been popular in previous years, including Cloud and Parallel Computing, Visualization, Software Interoperability, Genome-scale Data Management, and a session for updates on ongoing open source projects, as well as two new sessions: Translational Bioinformatics, recognizing the growing use of computational biology in medical applications, and Open Science and Reproducible Research. Open Science, a movement dedicated to making all aspects of scientific knowledge production freely available for reuse and extension, not only validates published results by allowing others to reproduce them, but also accelerates the pace of scientific discovery by enabling researchers to more efficiently build on previous work, rather than having to reinvent tools and reassemble data sets.\nBOSC typically features two keynote talks by researchers who are influential in some aspect of open source bioinformatics. Our first keynote talk this year was by Cameron Neylon, the Advocacy Director for the Public Library of Science (PLOS), who is a prominent advocate for open science. He discussed the cultural issues that are hindering open science, and how openness in scientific collaborations can generate impact. Our second keynote speaker, Sean Eddy, who is perhaps best known as the author of the HMMER software suite, began his keynote talk with an inspiring history of how he got involved in bioinformatics and proceeded to argue that dedicating effort to thorough engineering in tool development, which is often shunned as incremental, can become the key to creating a lasting impact.\nWith the increasing reliance of more and more fields of biology on computational tools to manage and analyze their data, BOSC is well positioned to stay relevant to life science, and thus life scientists, for many years to come.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/83/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science', 'Science Policy'], [u'Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory', u'Information and Computational Sciences, The James Hutton Institute', u'Bioinformatics Core, Harvard School of Public Health', u'Departments of Biology and Math & Computer Science, Emory University', u'Friedrich Miescher Institute', u'National Evolutionary Synthesis Center (NESCent)']]
[u'Fitting occupancy models with E-SURGE: Hidden Markov modelling of presence-absence data', ['Olivier Gimenez', 'Laetitia Blanc', 'Aurelien Besnard', 'Roger Pradel', 'Paul Doherty', 'Remi Choquet'], u'2013-10-20', u'1. Occupancy \u2013 the proportion of area occupied by a species \u2013 is a key notion for addressing important questions in ecology, biogeography and conservation biology. Occupancy models allow estimating and inferring about species occurrence while accounting for false absences (or imperfect species detection). 2. Most occupancy models can be formulated as hidden Markov models (HMM) in which the state process captures the Markovian dynamic of the actual but latent states while the observation process consists of observations that are made from these underlying states. 3. We show how occupancy models can be implemented in program E-SURGE, which was initially developed to analyse capture-recapture data in the HMM framework. Replacing individuals by sites provides the user with access to several features of E-SURGE that are not available altogether or just not available in standard occupancy software: i) user-friendly model specification through a SAS/R-like syntax without having to write custom code, ii) decomposition of the observation and state processes in several steps to provide flexible parameterisation, iii) up-to-date diagnostics of model identifiability and iv) advanced numerical algorithms to produce fast and reliable results (including site random effects). 4. To illustrate E-SURGE features, we provide simulated data and the details of the implementation on the analysis of several occupancy models. These detailed examples are gathered in a companion wiki platform http://occupancyinesurge.wikidot.com/ .', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/84/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Statistics'], [u'Centre d\u2019Ecologie Fonctionnelle et Evolutive, UMR 5175, CNRS', u'Department of Fish, Wildlife and Conservation Biology, Colorado State University']]
[u'Demographics and feeding ecology of whale sharks at Mafia Island, Tanzania', ['Edgar F Cagua', 'Jesse Cochran', 'Chris Rohner', 'Mathias M Igulu', 'Jason Rubens', 'Simon J Pierce', 'Michael L Berumen'], u'2013-10-17', u'Background. The Western Indian Ocean is a globally important region for the whale shark Rhincodon typus, with well-studied coastal aggregation sites in southern Mozambique, Seychelles and Djibouti. Here we present an overview of a new study at Mafia Island, Tanzania. Methods. We monitored whale shark abundances on 103 boat trips from October 2012\u2013March 2013. We also used passive acoustic telemetry (VEMCO\xae V16 tags) and photographic identification to monitor the residency times and local movements of 29 tagged individuals. Shark sizes were estimated using laser photogrammetry. Results. In total we observed 87 individual sharks with a mean of 5.1 \xb1 5.2 (\xb1 SD) per trip and a peak in December of 8.2 \xb1 6.3. Total length ranged from 4.1 to 9.7 m and almost all sharks were immature. After boat-based visual observations dropped to zero in March 2013 (with the same ongoing sampling effort), the acoustic array still detected 75% of tagged sharks. Tagged individuals were detected by the acoustic array for 73 \xb1 40 days on average. They showed a strong site fidelity to a 15 km2 area in the inner part of the bay and then progressively moved offshore at the end of the season, matching a decrease in plankton abundance. Sharks were mostly observed feeding on dense patches of the pelagic shrimp Lucifer hanseni, often in association with planktivorous fishes. Photo IDs from 2007-09 and 2012-13 indicate that a large proportion of the juvenile individuals return to Mafia Island each spring-summer. Conclusion. The size range and gender distribution of whale sharks at Mafia Island is similar to other coastal aggregations in the Indian Ocean, but the relatively high site fidelity and residency time stands in contrast.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/81/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Red Sea Research Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology', u'Manta Ray and Whale Shark Research Centre, Marine Megafauna Foundation', u'Marine Fisheries Research, Tanzanian Fisheries Research Institute', u'World Wide Fund for Nature', u'Wild Me', u'Biology Department, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution']]
[u'The geographic scaling of biotic interactions', ['Miguel B Araujo', 'Alejandro Rozenfeld'], u'2013-10-17', u'A central tenet of ecology and biogeography is that the broad outlines of species ranges are determined by climate, whereas the effects of biotic interactions are manifested at local scales. While the first proposition is supported by ample evidence, the second is still a matter of controversy. To address this question, we develop a mathematical model that predicts the spatial overlap, i.e., co-occurrence, between pairs of species subject to all possible types of interactions. We then identify the scale in which predicted range overlaps are lost. We found that co-occurrence arising from positive interactions, such as mutualism (+/+) and commensalism (+/0), are manifested across scales of resolution. Negative interactions, such as competition (-/-) and amensalism (-/0), generate checkerboard-type co-occurrence patterns that are discernible at finer resolutions. Scale dependence in consumer-resource interactions (+/-) depends on the strength of positive dependencies between species. Our results challenge the widely held view that climate alone is sufficient to characterize species distributions at broad scales, but also demonstrate that the spatial signature of competition is unlikely to be discernible beyond local and regional scales.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/82/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Mathematical Biology'], [u'Silwood Park Campus, Imperial College London', u'Biogeography and Global Change, National Museum of Natural Sciences CSIC', u'InBio/CIBIO, University of \xc9vora']]
[u'Bird migratory flyways influence the phylogeography of the invasive brine shrimp Artemia franciscana in its native American range', ['Joaquin Munoz', 'Francisco Amat', 'Andy J Green', 'Jordi Figuerola', 'Africa Gomez'], u'2013-10-09', u'Since Darwin\u2019s time, waterbirds have been considered an important vector for the dispersal of continental aquatic invertebrates. Bird movements have facilitated the worldwide invasion of the American brine shrimp Artemia franciscana, transporting cysts (diapausing eggs), and favouring rapid range expansions from introduction sites. Here we address the impact of bird migratory flyways on the population genetic structure and phylogeography of A. franciscana in its native range in the Americas. We examined the sequence variation for two mitochondrial gene fragments (COI and 16S for a subset of the data) in a large set of population samples representing the entire native range of A. franciscana. Furthermore, we performed Mantel tests and redundancy analyses (RDA) to test the role of flyways, geography and human introductions on the phylogeography and population genetic structure at a continental scale. A. franciscanamitochondrial DNA was very diverse, with two main clades, largely corresponding to Pacific and Atlantic populations, mirroring American bird flyways. There was a high degree of regional endemism, with populations subdivided into at least 12 divergent, geographically restricted and largely allopatric mitochondrial lineages, and high levels of population structure ( \u03a6 ST of 0.92), indicating low ongoing gene flow. We found evidence of human-mediated introductions in nine out of 39 populations analysed. Once these populations were removed, Mantel tests revealed a strong association between genetic variation and geographic distance (i.e., isolation-by-distance pattern). RDA showed that shared bird flyways explained around 20% of the variance in genetic distance between populations and this was highly significant, once geographic distance was controlled for. The variance explained increased to 30% when the factor human introduction was included in the model. Our findings suggest that bird-mediated transport of brine shrimp propagules does not result in substantial ongoing gene flow; instead, it had a significant historical role on the current species phylogeography, facilitating the colonisation of new aquatic environments as they become available along their main migratory flyways.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/79/', ['Biogeography', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies'], [u'Department of Wetland Ecology, Estaci\xf3n Biol\xf3gica de Do\xf1ana (CSIC), Isla de la Cartuja, Av. Am\xe9rico Vespucio, s/n. 41092', u'Instituto de Acuicultura de Torre de la Sal (CSIC)', u'School of Biological, Biomedical and Environmental Sciences, University of Hull']]
[u'Prolactin and fMRI response to SKF38393 in the baboon', ['Brad D. Miller', 'Lauren A. Marks', 'Jonathan Koller', 'Blake J. Newman', 'G. Larry Bretthorst', 'Kevin J Black'], u'2013-10-07', u'Background: This study\u2019s goal was to provide dose-response data for a dopamine agonist in the baboon using standard methods (replicate measurements at each dose, across a range of doses), as a standard against which to subsequently validate a novel pharmacological MRI (phMRI) method. Dependent variables were functional MRI (fMRI) data from brain regions selected a priori, and systemic prolactin release. Necessary first steps included estimating the magnitude and time course of prolactin response to anesthesia alone and to various doses of agonist. These first steps (\u201ctime course studies\u201d) were performed with three agonists, and the results were used to select promising agonists and to guide design details for the single-dose studies needed to generate dose-response curves.\nMethods: We studied 6 male baboons (Papio anubis) under low-dose isoflurane anesthesia after i.m. ketamine. Time course studies charted the changes in plasma prolactin levels over time after anesthesia alone or after an intravenous (i.v.) dose of the dopamine D1-like agonists SKF82958 and SKF38393 or the D2-like agonist pramipexole. In the single-dose dopamine agonist studies, one dose of SKF38393 (ranging from 0.0928 \u2013 9.28 mg/kg, N=5 animals) or pramipexole (0.00928 \u2013 0.2 mg/kg, N=1) was given i.v. during a 40-minute blood oxygen level dependent (BOLD) fMRI session, to determine BOLD and plasma prolactin responses to different drug concentrations. BOLD response was quantified as the area under the time-signal curve for the first 15 minutes after the start of the drug infusion, compared to the linearly predicted signal from the baseline data before drug. The ED50(estimated dose that produces 50% of the maximal possible response to drug) for SKF38393 was calculated for the serum prolactin response and for phMRI responses in hypothalamus, pituitary, striatum and midbrain.\nResults: Prolactin rose 2.4- to 12-fold with anesthesia alone, peaking around 50-90 minutes after ketamine administration and gradually tapering off but still remaining higher than baseline on isoflurane 3-5 hours after ketamine. Baseline prolactin level increased with age. SKF82958 0.1mg/kg i.v. produced no noticeable change in plasma prolactin concentration. SKF38393 produced a substantial increase in prolactin release that peaked at around 20-30 minutes and declined to pre-drug levels in about an hour. Pramipexole quickly reduced prolactin levels below baseline, reaching a nadir 2-3 hours after infusion. SKF38393 produced clear, dose-responsive BOLD signal changes, and across the four regions, ED50 was estimated at 1.6-7.7mg/kg.\nConclusions: In the baboon, the dopamine D1receptor agonist SKF38393 produces clear plasma prolactin and phMRI dose-response curves. Variability in age and a modest sample size limit the precision of the conclusions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/72/', ['Neuroscience', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Pharmacology', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging'], [u'Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St. Louis', u'School of Medicine, Washington University in St. Louis', u'Department of Neurology, Washington University in St. Louis', u'Department of Radiology, Washington University in St. Louis', u'Departments of Psychiatry, Neurology, Radiology, and Anatomy & Neurobiology, Washington University in St. Louis']]
[u'Fine motor deficits in reading disability and language impairment: same or different?', ['Dorothy V Bishop', 'Sarah McDonald', 'David McDonald', 'Annie Brookman'], u'2013-10-04', u'Several studies have found evidence of motor deficits in poor readers. There is no obvious reason for motor and literacy skills to go together, and it has been suggested that both deficits could be indicative of an underlying problem with cerebellar function and/or procedural learning. However, the picture is complicated by the fact that reading problems often co-occur with oral language impairments, which have also been linked with motor deficits. This raises the question of whether motor deficits characterise poor readers when language impairment has been accounted for \u2013 and vice versa. We considered these questions by assessing motor deficits associated with reading disability (RD) and language impairment (LI). A large community sample provided a subset of 9- to 10-year-olds, selected to oversample children with reading and/or language difficulties, to give 37 children with comorbid LI+RD, 67 children with RD only, 32 children with LI only, and 117 typically-developing (TD) children with neither type of difficulty. These children were given four motor tasks that taxed speed, sequence, and imitation abilities to differing extents. Different patterns of results were found for the four motor tasks. There was no effect of RD or LI on two speeded fingertip tapping tasks, one of which involved sequencing of movements. LI, but not RD, was associated with problems in imitating hand positions and slowed performance on a speeded peg-moving task that required a precision grip. Fine motor deficits in poor readers may be more a function of language impairment than literacy problems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/77/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Department of Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Adult Mental Health, Nottinghamshire NHS Trust']]
[u'Evidence for protection of targeted reef fish on the largest marine reserve in the Caribbean', ['Fabian Pina-Amargos', 'Gaspar Gonzalez-Sanson', 'Felix Martin-Blanco', 'Abel Valdivia'], u'2013-10-04', u'Effective marine reserves can restore fish abundance and diversity in areas impacted by overfishing, but the outcomes of some reserves in developing countries where resources for enforcement are limited have seldom been evaluated. Here we assess whether the establishment of the largest marine reserve in the Caribbean has had a positive effect on the abundance of commercially valuable reef fish species in relation to neighboring unprotected areas. We surveyed 25 sites including two reef habitats (reef crest and reef slope) inside and outside the marine reserve Gardens of the Queen in Cuba over a 1.5-year period. Densities of the most targeted reef fish species were significantly higher inside than outside the reserve in both habitats. This trend was mostly consistent over time. Supporting evidence from previously published studies in the area indicates that habitat complexity, benthic communities, and the intensity of fishing pressure were similar inside and outside the reserve before reserve establishment. Additionally, reported differential fish behavior towards divers inside and outside the reserve and relative low poaching inside the reserve supported our results. Therefore, the differences observed during the study in the density of targeted reef fish among non-reserve and reserve sites have likely resulted from protection.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/76/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Grupo de Investigacion y Monitoreo de la Costa Sur de Cuba, Centro de Investigaciones de Ecosistemas Costeros', u'Department of Studies for Sustainable Development of the Coastal Zone, University of Guadalajara', u'Tropical Research and Education Center, University of Florida', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill']]
[u'Amino-acid site variability among natural and designed proteins', ['Eleisha L. Jackson', 'Noah Ollikainen', 'Arthur W. Covert III', 'Tanja Kortemme', 'Claus O. Wilke'], u'2013-10-03', u'Computational protein design attempts to create protein sequences that fold stably into pre-specified structures. Here we compare alignments of designed proteins to alignments of natural proteins and assess how closely designed sequences recapitulate patterns of sequence variation found in natural protein sequences. We design proteins using RosettaDesign, and we evaluate both fixed-backbone designs and variable-backbone designs with different amounts of backbone flexibility. We find that proteins designed with a fixed backbone tend to underestimate the amount of site variability observed in natural proteins while proteins designed with an intermediate amount of backbone flexibility result in more realistic site variability. Further, the correlation between solvent exposure and site variability in designed proteins is lower than that in natural proteins. This finding suggests that site variability is too uniform across different solvent exposure states (i.e., buried residues are too variable or exposed residues too conserved). When comparing the amino acid frequencies in the designed proteins with those in natural proteins we find that in the designed proteins hydrophobic residues are underrepresented in the core. From these results we conclude that intermediate backbone flexibility during design results in more accurate protein design and that either scoring functions or backbone sampling methods require further improvement to accurately replicate structural constraints on site variability.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/74/', ['Biochemistry', 'Computational Biology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Integrative Biology, The University of Texas at Austin', u'Graduate Program in Bioinformatics, University of California San Francisco', u'BEACON Center for the Study of Evolution in Action', u'Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, University of California San Francisco']]
[u'A metabolomic approach to health assessment in the whale shark, Rhincodon typus', ['Alistair D Dove', 'Johannes Leisen', 'Manshui Zhou', 'Jonathan Byrne', 'Harry Webb', 'Les Gelbaum', 'Mark Viant', 'Julia Kubanek', 'Facundo Fernandez'], u'2013-10-02', u'Background. No studies have evaluated the biochemistry of whale sharks. The illness of two animals in the collection at Georgia Aquarium provided an opportunity to evaluate the blood chemistry of healthy and unhealthy animals in a search for biomarkers of health in this species. Methods. In the absence of existing data on whale shark biochemistry, we used a discovery based approach called metabolomics, wherein the compounds (and sometimes their concentrations) in a fluid sample can be determined using proton NMR spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. Samples from both healthy and unhealthy whale sharks were compared by both methods. NMR data were analysed by principal components analysis whereas the MS data were evaluated for presence/absence frequency for each analyte Results. PCA of proton NMR data could clearly discriminant between samples from healthy and unhealthy whale sharks. Analysis of PC loadings identified a shift region that was driving this discrimination and subsequent experiments determined that this region consisted of homarine, or n-methyl picolinic acid. Mass spectrometric data revealed 26 compounds that varied meaningfully, implying that they may be biomarkers of health in this species. A set of keto-acids was more frequently encountered in unhealthy animals, which was consistent with their primary clinical presentation (inappetance) Conclusion. Metabolomic approaches proved a powerful way to explore biochemistry of whale sharks, discriminating healthy from unhealthy and offering a selection of potential biomarker compounds for use in future studies of this species. The obvious next step is to attempt to obtain samples from field populations so that', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/73/', ['Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Georgia Aquarium Research Center, Georgia Aquarium', u'School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Georgia Institute of Technology', u'Georgia Institute of Technology', u'School of Biosciences, University of Birmingham', u'NMR Center, Georgia Institute of Technology', u'University of Birmingham', u'School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology', u'Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience, Georgia Institute of Technology']]
[u'How to critically read ecological meta-analyses.', ['Christopher J. Lortie', 'Gavin Stewart', 'Hannah Rothstein', 'Joseph Lau'], u'2013-09-30', u'Meta-analysis offers ecologists a powerful tool for knowledge synthesis. Albeit a form of review, it also shares many similarities with primary empirical research. Consequently, critical reading of meta-analyses incorporates criteria from both sets of approaches particularly because ecology is a discipline that embraces heterogeneity and broad methodologies. The most important issues in critically assessing a meta-analysis initially include transparency, replicability, and clear statement of purpose by the authors. Specific to ecology more so than other disciplines, tests of the same hypothesis are generally conducted at different study sites, have variable ecological contexts (i.e., seasonality), and use very different methods. Clear reporting and careful examination of heterogeneity in ecological meta-analyses is thus crucial. Ecologists often also test similar hypotheses with different species, and in these meta-analyses, the reader should expect exploration of phylogenetic dependencies. Finally, observational studies not only provide the substrate for potential current manipulative experiments in this discipline but also form an important body of literature historically for synthesis. Sensitivity analyses of observational versus manipulative experiments when aggregated in the same ecological meta-analysis are also frequent and appropriate. This brief conceptual review is not intended as an instrument to rate meta-analyses for ecologists but does provide the appropriate framing for those purposes and directs the reader to ongoing developments in this direction in other disciplines.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/38/', ['Ecology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biology, York University', u'Centre for Reviews and Dissemination, University of York', u'Department of Management, Baruch College', u'Center for Clinical Evidence Synthesis, Brown University']]
[u'Organic carbon inventories in natural and restored Ecuadorian mangrove forests', ['Amanda G DelVecchia', 'John F Bruno', 'Larry K Benninger', 'Marc Alperin', 'Ovik Banerjee', 'Juan de Dios Morales'], u'2013-10-01', u'Because mangroves can capture and store organic carbon, their protection and restoration is an obvious component of climate change mitigation. However, there are few empirical measurements of long-term carbon storage in mangroves or of how storage varies across environmental gradients. The context dependency of this process combined with geographically limited field sampling has made it difficult to generalize regional and global rates of mangrove carbon sequestration. This has in turn hampered the inclusion of sequestration by mangroves in carbon cycle models and in carbon offset markets. The purpose of this study was to estimate the relative carbon capture and storage potential in natural and restored mangrove forests. We measured depth profiles of soil organic carbon content in 72 cores collected from six sites (three natural, two restored, and one afforested) surrounding Muisne, Ecuador. Samples up to 1 m deep were analyzed for organic matter content using loss-on-ignition and values were converted to organic carbon content using an accepted ratio of 1.72 (g/g). Results suggest that average soil carbon storage is 0.055 \xb1 0.002 g\u2219cm-3 (11.3 \xb1 0.8% carbon content by dry mass, mean \xb1 1 SE) up to 1 m deep in natural sites, and 0.058 \xb1 0.002 g\u2219cm-3 (8.0 \xb1 0.3%) in restored sites. These estimates are concordant with published global averages. Evidence of equivalent carbon stocks in restored and afforested mangrove patches emphasizes the carbon sink potential for reestablished mangrove systems. We found no relationship between sediment carbon storage and aboveground biomass, forest structure, or within-patch location. Our results demonstrate the long-term carbon storage potential of natural mangroves, high effectiveness of mangrove restoration and afforestation, a lack of predictability in carbon storage strictly based on aboveground parameters, and the need to establish standardized protocol for quantifying mangrove sediment carbon stocks.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/71/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Ecosystem Science'], [u'Flathead Lake Biological Station, University of Montana', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Geological Sciences, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Department of Marine Sciences, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Institute for the Environment, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Colegio de Ciencias biologicas y ambientales, Universidad San Francisco de Quito']]
[u'Describing the population structure of Rhincodon typus occurring in the waters of Oslob\u2013 Cebu, Philippines\u2013 between March 2012 and June 2013, during the provisioning interaction hours.', ['Gonzalo Araujo', 'Alessandro Ponzo', 'Daniel Geary', 'Samantha Craven', 'Sally J Snow', 'Anna R Lucey'], u'2013-09-30', u'Background: Prior to this study, the aggregation of whale sharks in the waters of Oslob had never been described. Provisioning (Orams, 2002) activities started in late 2011, and systematic data collection in March 2012, attracting over 100,000 tourists in the first year, and is currently the most reliable aggregation of R. typus in the Philippines. Methods: Daily in-\xad\u2010water photographic identification was used as a non-\xad\u2010invasive means to describe the population throughout the study period. A total of 135 sharks were identified, and IDs were independently matched by three researchers to minimize error. Photogrammetry (Rohner, 2011) was adopted to complement population description. Results: Daily sightings ranged from 2 to 23 different animals in the interaction area (mean=11.14). A total of 109 males, 15 females and 11 R. typus of undetermined sex were described. The size was estimated for 73.3% of the population, with an average of 5.36m \xb11.3m. Photogrammetry posed a mean of 5.63m \xb10.59m on 14 sharks, 6.75% >than researchers\u2019 estimates. Resighting (>1d) was observed in 66.7% of the population. Five individuals were present for >300d (n=443) in the interaction area, with a maximum of 420d. Nine individuals were successfully matched across regional hotspots including Donsol and Southern Leyte. Conclusion: Despite the presence of animals in Oslob year round and the influence of the provisioning, there appears to be a seasonal influx of animals, with a maximum of 46 different animals present in the month of June 2012 and again in May 2013, contrasting with a monthly average of 28.9. It appears these waters are important to the species and it\u2019s paramount to fully investigate the impact of the provisioning on the population of R. typus in the Philippines.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/70/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Zoology'], [u'Large Marine Vertebrates Project Philippines, Physalus NGO']]
[u'Whale Shark Provisioning: What do we know and where do we stand; The case study of Oslob, Philippines', ['Alessandro Ponzo', 'Gonzalo Araujo', 'Jessica Labaja', 'Catherine L. So', 'Sally J. Snow', 'Daniel Geary', 'Samantha Craven', 'Anna R. Lucey'], u'2013-09-30', u'Background. Provisioning is a growing practice used to facilitate wildlife-tourist interaction, especially with elusive marine species, but still little is known about its effect on the host species. This work discusses the practice, effect and proposed measures to manage the whale shark provisioning activities and related tourism industry in the waters of Oslob, Philippines.\nMethods. Since March 2012, the research team has been studying daily the whale shark population, the tourism industry and its compliances with the local and national laws. During 443 days of survey, 135 individual whale sharks where identified within the interaction area, 197h of shark behavioral observations and tourist compliance surveys have been collected along with 45 biopsy samples, 1000h of dive profiles from TDR tags and 500 tourist satisfaction questionnaires.\nResults. Since its official opening in January 2012 more than 140,000 interaction tickets have been sold bringing over 1M USD to the local community and making it one of the largest marine wildlife tourist attractions in South East Asia. The benefits for the community and regional economy are undeniable, however behavioral modification, extended residency time, poor nutritional value of provided food and thermal stress related to the extended permanence in shallow water together with habitat destruction caused by poor diving practices and unregulated coastal developments are some of the quantified side effects of this industry.\nConclusion. A series of meeting with the stakeholders and an education campaign have been initiated as bottom up approach and an adaptive management model based on the identification of the limits of acceptable change is being developed in collaboration with the Authorities to address current limitations in the long-term sustainable management of the whale shark watching industry in Oslob.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/69/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Conservation Biology', 'Marine Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Large Marine Vertebrates Project Philippines, Physalus']]
[u'An effective rectal administration method in the left semiprone position', ['Satoshi Awazu', 'Risa Araki', 'Toshihiko Awazu'], u'2013-09-23', u'A previous study has shown barium is instilled in the left lateral position or the prone position. However, we previously reported that the colonoscope can be readily inserted into the descending colon in the left semiprone position. Indeed, when the colonoscope was inserted in the left semiprone position, the lumen of the sigmoid colon was observed linearly and the colon position lowered toward the oral side. In addition, it was often observed that the rectosigmoid colon nearly overlapped with the sigmoid-descending colon junction when the patient was placed in the left semiprone position in the single-contrast enema examination. Therefore, we considered that the rectosigmoid colon is located in the highest position while the sigmoid-descending colon junction is located in the lowest position and various kinds of drugs can be readily administered into the proximal colon in the left semiprone position. Our new barium instillation method was devised and this method was performed to determine whether barium can be readily instilled into the proximal colon. Barium (300 ml) passed the hepatic flexure before air insufflation in 32 (67%) of the 48 patients by using our new barium instillation method. By contrast, barium (300 ml) passed the hepatic flexure before air insufflation in 3 (6%) of the 48 patients by using our conventional barium instillation method. These results suggest that effective rectal administration is possible by using our new barium instillation method compared with our conventional barium instillation method.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/68/', ['Gastroenterology and Hepatology'], [u'Gastroenterology, Awazu Hospital', u'Awazu Hospital']]
[u'The neck of Barosaurus was not only longer but also wider than those of Diplodocus  and other diplodocines', ['Michael P Taylor', 'Mathew J Wedel'], u'2013-09-23', u'Barosaurus is a diplodocid sauropod from the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation of the western United States, and is known for its very long neck. It is related to the sympatric Diplodocus, and often thought of as more or less identical except with a longer neck. The holotype YPM 429 includes three and a half posterior cervical vertebrae, somewhat distorted and damaged, which are nevertheless very distinctive and quite different from those of Diplodocus. The cervicals of the better known and more complete referred Barosaurus specimen AMNH 6341 show the same characteristic features as the holotype, though not to the same extent: transversely broad but anteroposteriorly short zygapophyseal facets; prezygapophyses carried on broad, squared-off rami; zygapophyses shifted forward relative to the centrum; diapophyses, parapophyses and neural spines shifted backwards; and broad diapophyseal \u201cwings\u201d. These features form a single functional complex, enabling great lateral \ufb02exibility, but restricting vertical \ufb02exibility. This may indicate that Barosaurus  used a different feeding style from other sauropods perhaps sweeping out long arcs at ground level. The Morrison Formation contains at least nine diplodocid species in six to eight genera whose relationships are not yet fully understood, but Barosaurus remains distinct from its relatives.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/67/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Zoology'], [u'Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol', u'College of Osteopathic Medicine of the Paci\ufb01c and College of Podiatric Medicine, Western  University of Health Sciences']]
[u'Perceived extrinsic mortality risk and reported effort in looking after health: Testing a behavioural ecological prediction', ['Gillian V Pepper', 'Daniel Nettle'], u'2013-09-20', u'Socioeconomic gradients in health behaviour are pervasive and well documented. Yet, there is little consensus on their causes. Behavioural ecological theory predicts that, if people of lower socioeconomic position (SEP) perceive greater personal extrinsic mortality risk than those of higher SEP, they should disinvest in their future health. We surveyed North American adults for reported effort in looking after health, perceived extrinsic and intrinsic mortality risks, and measures of SEP. We examined the relationships between these variables and found that lower subjective SEP predicted lower reported health effort. Lower subjective SEP was also associated with higher perceived extrinsic mortality risk, which in turn predicted lower reported health effort. The effect of subjective SEP on reported health effort was completely mediated by perceived extrinsic mortality risk. Our findings indicate that perceived extrinsic mortality risk may be a key factor underlying SEP gradients in motivation to invest in future health.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/29/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Public health'], [u'Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle University']]
[u'Synthetic sugar for sustainable power!', ['Khaled Moustafa'], u'2013-09-18', u'Natural photosynthesis allows biological systems to remarkably combine carbon dioxide and water molecules under sunlight to produce energy in the form of stored sugars. The stored sugar is then used by plants and animals to exert vital biological functions. If scientists can find the right protocol and materials to mimic this natural system to produce fermentable sugars, it could be the McCoy sustainable energy source for the future. The objective here is not to recall the photosynthesis mechanism, but to provide a future brief vision for a conceptual application of photosynthesis to produce bioethanol from organic synthetized sugar rather than from plants, which should be saved for human and animal feeding.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/66/', ['Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Plant Science', 'Synthetic Biology'], [u'Institut Mondor de la Recherche Biom\xe9dicale']]
[u'Calprotectin as a marker of bowel inflammation', ['Gianluca Terrin', 'Andrea Pietravalle'], u'2013-09-17', u'In the last years the need for a non-invasive diagnostic tool that would help to discriminate between organic and functional gastrointestinal disorders directed research towards potential immunological markers. A great number of non-invasive bio-markers has been proposed, including eosinophilic cationic protein, elastase, esterase, myeloperoxidase, lysozyme, lactoferrin, and calprotectin. Compared to other biomarkers, calprotectin (also called MRP8/14, calgranulin A/B , S100 A8/A9) may offer advantages based on its biological characteristics. Calprotectin is a 36.5-kDa, calcium and zinc binding polypeptide which constitutes about 60% of soluble cytosol proteins in human neutrophils. It is also found in monocytes, keratinocytes, muscle tissue and infiltrating tissue macrophages. When bound to calcium it becomes resistant to proteolysis and colonic bacterial degradation. This make is stable for up to 1 week at room temperature and facilitate its determination in feces. Calprotectin is involved in the regulation of the inflammatory process, participate to the early innate immune response and exert antimicrobial, anti-proliferative and apoptotic properties. Fecal calprotectin is a direct measure of mucosal inflammation activity and becomes detectable when intestinal inflammation is still at an insufficient level to cause an increase in serum inflammation markers. In the last decade fecal calprotectin has been proposed as a marker to rule out acute and chronic intestinal inflammatory diseases in children with typical gastrointestinal symptoms. Many studies demonstrated its diagnostic utility in identifying children and adults with inflammatory bowel disease and correlate with the degree of disease activity. The detection of elevated levels of fecal calprotectin in healthy infants during the first few weeks of age, limits their use as screening test for intestinal inflammatory diseases in early life. Despite this evidence, the measurement of calprotectin in the serum has been proposed to identify neonates with necrotizing enterocolitis. Recent studies have shown higher fecal calprotectin levels in infants with irritable bowel syndrome and colics, compared with healthy controls. Additionally, a correlation was found between fecal calprotectin concentration and IBS clinical presentation severity. However, these studies do not provide data on diagnostic accuracy in distinguish between organic and functional gastrointestinal disorders. Despite significant limitations, these evidences suggest the presence of a subtle inflammatory process underlying functional gastrointestinal disorders and open new perspectives on their pathogenesis. Fecal calprotectin may play a role that could be revealed in further, specifically designed, studies. Changes in microflora, permeability, calprotectin excretion and other inflammatory biomarkers, should be investigated to clarify if a continuum exists between inflammatory conditions and intestinal functional diseases.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/65/', ['Pediatrics'], [u'Department of Perinatal Medicine, University of Rome La Sapienza']]
[u'Infantile colic treatment: new prospects', ['Francesco Savino', 'Angela De Marco', 'Simone Ceratto'], u'2013-09-19', u'Infantile colic is a common disturbance occurring in the first three months of life. It is a benign condition and one of the main causes of pediatric consultation in the early part of life because of its great impact on family life. Some pediatricians are prone to undervalue this issue and there is no consensus concerning management and treatment. In literature are growing evidences about the effectiveness of dietary, pharmacological, complementary and behavioral therapies as options for the management of infantile colic. Dietary approach is based on the avoidance of cow\u2019s milk proteins in breast-feeding mothers and bottle-fed infants. Currently pharmacological agents over the counter or by prescription are not recommended because of reported side effects. There is limited evidence supporting the use of complementary and alternative treatments (herbal supplements, manipulative approach and acupuncture) or behavioral modification interventions. Recent studies have partially clarified the pathogenesis of this disturb and so new treatments, such as probiotics, have been proposed. Further investigations are needed in order to provide evidence-based guidelines.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/64/', ['Gastroenterology and Hepatology', 'Nursing', 'Pediatrics'], [u'Dipartimento di Scienze della Sanit\xe0 Pubblica e Pediatriche, Ospedale Infantile Regina Margherita']]
[u'Carbon-driven eco-agriculture without nitrogen deficiency', ['Masato Oda', 'Kenji Tamura', 'Hiroko Nakatsuka', 'Miki Nakata', 'Yukimi Hayashi'], u'2013-09-12', u'A farmer grew crops by adding only organic material with a high C:N ratio (40) to the soil for 30 years. He focused on the role of carbon in increasing the number of microorganisms. This idea was based on the concepts of 1) indirect crop management via microorganisms and 2) providing carbon to microorganisms for energy. Here, we name this practice \u201ccarbon -driven eco-agriculture\u201d (CDEA). We determined the effect of CDEA on a laterite soil vegetable field in Sao Paulo for 4 years. The yield exceeded the national average. Soil aggregates formed to 29 cm thickness, and the microbial activity was one order of magnitude higher than that in a conventional control field. The output/input ratios of carbon and nitrogen were 1.88 \u20132.35 and 3.58\u20136.00, respectively, indicating a sustainable system for these elements. Incorporating high-C:N-ratio (>20) organic material results in nitrogen deficiency. However, our results indicate that large numbers of microorganisms provide crops with sufficient nitrogen at low concentrations. This method overcomes the yield limitation of chemical fertilizer application and reverses soil degradation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/63/', ['Agricultural Science', 'Microbiology', 'Soil Science'], [u'Livestock & Environment, Japan International Research Center for Agricultural Sciences', u'Graduate School of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Tsukuba', u'Department of Local Produce and Food Sciences, University of Yamanashi', u'Sitio TKM']]
[u'High throughput screening of Toxoplasma gondii clones by PCR after limitation cloning', ['Ting-Kai Liu'], u'2013-09-09', u'Toxoplasma gondii is a kind of obligate intracellular parasites that are capable of infecting virtually all warm-blooded animals. It is one of the most common parasites in human. Serological studies estimated that up to a third of the global population has been chronically infected with the parsites. Toxoplasma gondii is also used as a model orgnisim of Apicomplexans that includes Plasmodium \u2013 the parasites that cause malaria. Gene knockout is a very important way to study gene function in all organisms. When it comes to Toxoplasma, it\u2019s very difficult as this haploid parasite has strong adaptability to circumvent the condition of gene defects by gene duplication. High throughput screening at very early stage of transfection is very important for generating a true knockout of this parasite. For some genes that are required forToxoplasma gondii, the high throughput screening is necessary. Different labs use different protocols. After reading and practicing protocols from different papers or different labs, here I established an efficient pipeline for this purpose.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/62/', ['Cell Biology', 'Parasitology'], [u'Toxicology & Pharmacology, Indiana University School of Medicine']]
[u'Comparative selenoproteome analysis reveals a reduced utilization of selenium in parasitic platyhelminthes', ['Liang Jiang', 'Huazhang Zhu', 'Yinzhen Xu', 'Jiazuan Ni', 'Yan Zhang', 'Qiong Liu'], u'2013-09-09', u'Background: The selenocysteine(Sec)-containing proteins, selenoproteins, are an important group of proteins present in all three kingdoms of life. Although the selenoproteomes of many organisms have been analyzed, systematic studies on selenoproteins in platyhelminthes are still lacking. Moreover, comparison of selenoproteomes between free-living and parasitic animals is rarely studied. Results: In this study, three representative organisms (Schmidtea mediterranea, Schistosoma japonicum and Taenia solium) were selected for comparative analysis of selenoproteomes in Platyhelminthes. Using a SelGenAmic-based selenoprotein prediction algorithm, a total of 37 selenoprotein genes were identified in these organisms. The size of selenoproteomes and selenoprotein families were found to be associated with different lifestyles: free-living organisms have larger selenoproteome whereas parasitic lifestyle corresponds to reduced selenoproteomes. Five selenoproteins, SelT, Sel15, GPx, SPS2 and TR, were found to be present in all examined platyhelminthes as well as almost all sequenced animals, suggesting their essential role in metazoans. Finally, a new splicing form of SelW that lacked the first exon was found to be present in S. japonicum. Conclusions: Our data provide a first glance into the selenoproteomes of organisms in the phylum Platyhelminthes and may help understand function and evolutionary dynamics of selenium utilization in diversified metazoans.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/61/', ['Bioinformatics'], [u'College of Life Sciences,College of Optoelectronic Engineering, Shenzhen University', u'College of Life Sciences, Shenzhen University', u'Institute for Nutritional Sciences, Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences']]
[u'Construction of microRNA functional families by a mixture model of position weight matrices', ['Je-Keun Rhee', 'Soo-Yong Shin', 'Byoung-Tak Zhang'], u'2013-09-06', u"MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small regulatory molecules that repress the translational processes of their target genes by binding to their 3' untranslated regions (3' UTRs). Because the target genes are predominantly determined by their sequence complementarity to the miRNA seed regions (nucleotides 2-7) which are evolutionarily conserved, it is inferred that the target relationships and functions of the miRNA family members are conserved across many species. Therefore, detecting the relevant miRNA families with confidence would help to clarify the conserved miRNA functions, and elucidate miRNA-mediated biological processes. We present a mixture model of position weight matrices for constructing miRNA functional families. This model systematically finds not only evolutionarily conserved miRNA family members but also functionally related miRNAs, as it simultaneously generates position weight matrices representing the conserved sequences. Using mammalian miRNA sequences, in our experiments, we identified potential miRNA groups characterized by similar sequence patterns that have common functions. We validated our results using score measures and by the analysis of the conserved targets. Our method would provide a way to comprehensively identify conserved miRNA functions.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/59/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics'], [u'Interdisciplinary Program in Bioinformatics, Seoul National University', u'Department of Biomedical Informatics, Asan Medical Center', u'University of Ulsan College of Medicine', u'School of Computer Science and Engineering, Seoul National University']]
[u'An integrated pipeline for next generation sequencing and annotation of the complete mitochondrial genome of the giant intestinal fluke, Fasciolopsis buski (Lankester,1857) Looss, 1899', ['Devendra Kumar Biswal', 'Sudeep Ghatani', 'Jollin A Shylla', 'Ranjana Sahu', 'Nandita Mullapudi', 'Alok Bhattacharya', 'Veena Tandon'], u'2013-09-04', u'Helminths include both parasitic nematodes (roundworms) and platyhelminths (trematode and cestode flatworms) that are abundant, and are of clinical importance. The genetic characterization of parasitic flatworms using advanced molecular tools is central to the diagnosis and control of infections. Although the nuclear genome houses suitable genetic markers (e.g., in ribosomal (r) DNA) for species identification and molecular characterization, the mitochondrial (mt) genome consistently provides a rich source of novel markers for informative systematics and epidemiological studies. In the last decade, there have been some important advances in mtDNA genomics of helminths, especially lung flukes, liver flukes and intestinal flukes. Fasciolopsis buski, often called the giant intestinal fluke, is one of the largest digenean trematodes infecting humans and found primarily in Asia, in particular the Indian subcontinent. Next-generation sequencing (NGS) technologies now provide opportunities for high throughput sequencing, assembly and annotation within a short span of time. Herein, we describe a high-throughput sequencing and bioinformatics pipeline for mt genomics for F. buski that emphasizes the utility of short read NGS platforms such as Ion Torrent and Illumina in successfully sequencing and assembling the mt genome using innovative approaches for PCR primer design as well as assembly. We took advantage of our NGS whole genome sequence data (unpublished so far) for F. buski and its comparison with available data for the Fasciola hepatica mtDNA as the reference genome for design of precise and specific primers for amplification of mt genome sequences from F. buski. A long-range PCR was carried out to create a NGS library enriched in mt DNA sequences. Two different NGS platforms were employed for complete sequencing, assembly and annotation of the F. buski mt genome. The complete mt genome sequences of the intestinal fluke comprise 14,118 bp and is thus the shortest trematode mitochondrial genome sequenced to date. The noncoding control regions are separated into two parts by the tRNA-Gly gene and donot contain either tandem repeats or secondary structures, which are typical for trematode control regions. The gene content and arrangement are identical to that of F. hepatica. The F. buski mtDNA genome has a close resemblance with F. hepatica and has a similar gene order tallying with that of other trematodes. The mtDNA for the intestinal fluke is reported herein for the first time by our group that would help invesigate Fasciolidae taxonomy and systematics with the aid of mtDNA NGS data. More so, it would serve as a resource for comparative mitochondrial genomics and systematic studies of trematode parasites.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/58/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Parasitology', 'Zoology'], [u'Bioinformatics Centre, North Eastern Hill University', u'Zoology, North-Eastern Hill University', u'Research and Development Unit, Genotypic Technology Private Limited', u'School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University']]
[u'Characterization of RNA in exosomes secreted by human breast cancer cell lines using next-generation sequencing', ['Piroon Jenjaroenpun', 'Yuliya Kremenska', 'Vrundha M Nair', 'Maksym Kremenskoy', 'Baby Joseph', 'Igor V Kurochkin'], u'2013-09-02', u'Exosomes are nanosized (30-100 nm) membrane vesicles secreted by most cell types. Exosomes have been found to contain various RNA species including miRNA, mRNA and long non-protein coding RNAs. A number of cancer cells produce elevated levels of exosomes. Because exosomes have been isolated from most body fluids they may provide a source for non-invasive cancer diagnostics. Transcriptome profiling that uses deep-sequencing technologies (RNA-Seq) offers enormous amount of data that can be used for biomarkers discovery, however, in case of exosomes this approach was applied only for the analysis of small RNAs. In this study, we utilized RNA-Seq technology to analyze RNAs present in microvesicles secreted by human breast cancer cell lines.Exosomes were isolated from the media conditioned by two human breast cancer cell lines, MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-436. Exosomal RNA was profiled using the Ion Torrent semiconductor chip-based technology. Exosomes were found to contain various classes of RNA with the major class represented by fragmented ribosomal RNA (rRNA), in particular 28S and 18S rRNA subunits. Analysis of exosomal RNA content revealed that it reflects RNA content of the donor cells. Although exosomes produced by the two cancer cell lines shared most of the RNA species, there was a number of non-coding transcripts unique to MDA-MB-231 and MDA-MB-436 cells. This suggests that RNA analysis might distinguish exosomes produced by low metastatic breast cancer cell line (MDA-MB-436) from that produced by highly metastatic breast cancer cell line (MDA-MB-231). The analysis of gene ontologies (GOs) associated with the most abundant transcripts present in exosomes revealed significant enrichment in genes encoding proteins involved in translation and rRNA and ncRNA processing. These GO terms indicate most expressed genes for both, cellular and exosomal RNA.For the first time, using RNA-seq, we examined the transcriptomes of exosomes secreted by human breast cancer cells. We found that most abundant exosomal RNA species are the fragments of 28S and 18S rRNA subunits. This limits the number of reads from other RNAs. To increase the number of detectable transcripts and improve the accuracy of their expression level the protocols allowing depletion of fragmented rRNA should be utilized in the future RNA-seq analyses on exosomes. Present data revealed that exosomal transcripts are representative of their cells of origin and thus could form basis for detection of tumor specific markers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/56/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Computational Biology', 'Genetics', 'Oncology'], [u'Department of Genome and Gene Expression Data Analysis, Bioinformatics Institute, Bioinformatics Institute, A*STAR', u'Interdisciplinary Research Centre, Malankara Catholic College']]
[u'Global broadcast and attention can be highly punctuated in fuzzy cognitive systems', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2013-09-02', u"Previous theoretical work on consciousness and other punctuated global broadcasts associated with attention states has focused on the evolutionary exaptation of the inevitable crosstalk between related sets of unconscious cognitive modules (UCM). This has invoked a groupoid treatment of the equivalence class structure arising from information sources 'dual', in a formal sense, to the UCM, via a standard spontaneous symmetry breaking/lifting methodology abducted from statistical physics, and through an index theorem approach based on an Onsager-like stochastic differential equations model. Surprisingly, similar arguments can be applied to the formally 'fuzzy' generalizations that are likely to better fit actual biological complexities.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/34/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Neuroscience'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Phylogenetic patterns of extinction risk: the need for critical application of appropriate datasets', ['Roy E. Gereau', 'Neil D. Burgess', 'Jon Fjeldsa', 'Jaclyn Hall', 'Andreas Hemp', 'Alistair S. Jump', 'Asukile R. Kajuni', 'Robert A. Marchant', 'Andrew R. Marshall', 'Philip J. Platts', 'Charlotte M. Taylor', 'Flora I. Tibazarwa'], u'2013-08-30', u'In order to conduct a replicable analysis of the possible phylogenetic patterns of extinction risk, one must first formulate a clear set of definitions of ecosystem boundaries and risk categories. Subsequently, a robust and internally consistent dataset that includes all the available information on species distributions and risk assessments must be assembled. Here, we review the dataset and methodology of a recent paper focused on phylogenetic patterns of plant extinction risk in the Eastern Arc Mountains of Kenya and Tanzania and point out some of the limitations of inferring such patterns from inadequate and biased data. We show that bias in the dataset is probably responsible for the conclusion that Vulnerable species are more closely related than expected by chance, and provide guidelines for the construction of an appropriate dataset for such an analysis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/55/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Conservation Biology', 'Plant Science'], [u'Africa and Madagascar Department, Missouri Botanical Garden', u'Zoology Department, University of Cambridge', u'Natural History Museum of Denmark, University of Copenhagen', u'Department of Geography, University of Florida', u'Department of Plant Systematics, University of Bayreuth', u'Biological and Environmental Sciences, University of Stirling', u'Tanzania Country Office, WWF', u'Environment Department, University of York', u'Monographic Studies Department, Missouri Botanical Garden', u'Tanzania Commission for Science and Technology']]
[u'BioNames: linking taxonomy, texts, and trees', ['Roderic D M Page'], u'2013-08-29', u'BioNames is a web database of taxonomic names for animals, linked to the primary literature and, wherever possible, to phylogenetic trees. It aims to provide a taxonomic "dashboard" where at a glance we can see a summary of the taxonomic and phylogenetic information we have for a given taxon and hence provide a quick answer to the basic question "what is this taxon?" BioNames combines classifications from the Global Biodiversity Information Facility (GBIF) and GenBank, imagery from the Encyclopedia of Life (EOL), animal names from the Index of Organism Names (ION), and bibliographic data from multiple sources including the Biodiversity Heritage Library (BHL) and CrossRef. The user interface includes display of full text articles, interactive timelines of taxonomic publications, and zoomable phylogenies. It is available at http://bionames.org.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/54/', ['Biodiversity', 'Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Taxonomy', 'Zoology'], [u'Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health and Comparative Medicine, College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences,, University of Glasgow']]
[u'A new potentially promising concept in diagnosis of occult infection with help of PET-CT', ['Dauren Sarsenov', 'Eser Lay Ergun'], u'2013-08-23', u'In the light of recent advances in radionuclide diagnostics of occult infectious states, it is clearly seen that positron emission tomography will have a part in routine work-up especially for critically ill patients in near future. For the purpose of further development of a specific agent that might be capable of detecting a living microorganism in occult focus inside the host organism, we come with a concept of probably a new radiopharmaceutical agent besides well-known fluorinated glucose, labelled leucocytes and gallium based radiopharmaceuticals. The aim of this opinion letter is to propose a specific agent for almost all bacteria and fungi genera not depending on host\u2019s metabolism, thus letting differentiation of infection foci from host\u2019s tissue. The discussion of this letter is mainly on the background of developing a compound for folate biosynthesis in bacteria and fungi which is a specific way of metabolization by the mentioned species which is provided by microbiological studies.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/52/', ['Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Radiology and Medical Imaging', 'Surgery and Surgical Specialties'], [u'No current affiliation', u'Nuclear Medicine, Hacettepe University School of Medicine']]
[u'Traverse the landscape of the mind by walking: an exploration of a new brainstorming practice', ['Xiaofeng Wang', 'Daniel Graziotin', 'Juha Rikkila', 'Pekka Abrahamsson'], u'2013-08-22', u'Group brainstorming is a well-known idea generation technique, which plays a key role in software development processes. Despite this, the relevant literature has had little to offer in advancing our understanding of the effectiveness of group brainstorming sessions. In this paper we present a research-in-progress on brainstorming while walking, which is a practice built upon the relationship between thinking and walking. The objective is to better understand how to conduct group brainstorming effectively. We compared two brainstorming sessions, one performed during a mountain walk, the other traditionally in a room. Three preliminary findings are obtained: walking can lead to an effective idea generation session; brainstorming while walking can encourage team members to participate in and contribute to the session in an equal manner; and it can help a team to maintain sustainable mental energy. Our study opens up an avenue for future exploration of effective group brainstorming practices.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/51/', ['Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Human-Computer Interaction'], [u'Faculty of Computer Science, Free University of Bozen-Bolzano']]
[u'Signatures of rapid evolution in urban and rural transcriptomes of white-footed mice (Peromyscus leucopus) in the New York metropolitan area', ['Stephen E Harris', 'Jason Munshi-South', 'Craig Obergfell', "Rachel O'Neill"], u'2013-08-21', u'Urbanization is a major cause of ecological degradation around the world, and human settlement in large cities is accelerating. New York City (NYC) is one of the oldest and most urbanized cities in North America, but still maintains 20% vegetation cover and substantial populations of some native wildlife. The white-footed mouse, Peromyscus leucopus, is a common resident of NYC\u2019s forest fragments and an emerging model system for examining the evolutionary consequences of urbanization. In this study, we developed transcriptomic resources for urban P. leucopus to examine evolutionary changes in protein-coding regions for an exemplar \u2018urban adapter\u2019. We used Roche 454 GS FLX+ high throughput sequencing to derive transcriptomes from multiple tissues from individuals across both urban and rural populations. From these data, we identified 31,015 SNPs and several candidate genes potentially experiencing positive selection in urban populations of P. leucopus. These candidate genes are involved in xenobiotic metabolism, innate immune response, demethylation activity, and other important biological phenomena in novel urban environments. This study is one of the first to report candidate genes exhibiting signatures of directional selection in divergent urban ecosystems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/13/', ['Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics', 'Zoology'], [u'Program in Ecology, Evolutionary Biology, and Behavior, The Graduate Center, City University of New York', u'Biological Sciences & Louis Calder Center, Fordham University', u'Molecular & Cell Biology, University of Connecticut']]
[u'Collective cognitive epidemiology: Introducing subjective parameters into disease spread models', ['Aditya Akundi', 'Milad Zarei', 'Eric D Smith'], u'2013-08-14', u'Modern instances of disease emergence have shown that human subjective reactions to a novel disease can be as important as the objective reality of the disease spread. Therefore, this work introduces human cognitive heuristics and biases into epidemiological modeling. Human subjective perception and reaction to the presence of the disease is represented in the difference between the objective and subjective probability of contagion. It is assumed that humans within a disease spread situation will have either limited or full information about the objective probability of contagion. From this information, humans subjectively react, forming a subjective assessment of probability of contagion. Although the translation from the objective to subjective probability of contagion is rooted in a biological basis, the translation has been adequately determined by previous research in Prospect theory as developed by Daniel Kahneman and Amos Tversky. The formulation of Lotka-Volterra epidemiology models with parameters for perceived probability of contagion was followed by numerical experimentation and sensitivity analysis that determined values of parameters that create cyclic population behavior, whether growing or dampened, as well as acyclic behavior. The results show that the model is capable of capturing stable as well as unstable behavior, and is able to model key epidemiological disease behaviors and states, such as epidemic and endemic conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/49/', ['Epidemiology'], [u'Electrical and Computer Engineering Department,Systems Engineering Track, University of Texas, El Paso', u'Industrial Manufacturing and Systems Engineering Department, University of Texas, El Paso']]
[u"Allogenic stem cell transplant in a patient with classical Kaposi's sarcoma", ['Richard Barchas'], u'2013-08-09', u"A 68 year old male with a history of classical Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) and precursor T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) received an allogenic stem cell transplant from an unrelated donor to treat his ALL. He developed acute graft-vs.-host-disease (GVHD) which was treated by increasing immunosuppressants. KS, which had been in remission for years, then recurred aggressively. Tapering immunosuppressants to treat the KS was not possible because of GVHD. Chemotherapy could not be used because of its adverse effect on the bone marrow so soon after transplant. The only option was to use antiviral therapy (cidofovir) to lower the level of HHV-8, the virus that is a causal factor in KS. Although HHV-8 levels were significantly reduced, new KS lesions continued to appear. The patient developed acute kidney injury after the third cidofovir infusion and died from renal and respiratory failure soon afterward. Post-mortem revealed extensive internal KS lesions involving multiple organs. Based on the experience with this patient, allogenic transplant using an unrelated donor has been found to be a questionable treatment modality for classical KS patients requiring treatment for another condition such as leukemias and lymphomas. Post-transplant immunosuppression is required to prevent GVHD, and if it occurs, immunosuppression may have to be increased. Aggressive KS developed in this patient under these conditions, and could not be controlled by tapering immunosuppressants. Although the risk of GVHD is lower for an allogenic transplant using a matched sibling instead of an unrelated donor, the risk of both GVHD and aggressive KS both developing may still be unacceptably high.Alternative treatment modalities for these patients might include continuing with chemotherapy and autologous transplant. These avoid GVHD and lower the need for long term immunosuppression, but have a much higher risk of relapse of the underlying malignancy. Still, they could be preferable to an allogenic transplant for such cases.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/48/', ['Immunology', 'Infectious Diseases', 'Nephrology', 'Oncology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Unaffiliated']]
[u'Stiffness without mineral: material properties and biochemical components of jaws and chondrocrania in the Elasmobranchii (sharks, skates, and rays)', ['Marianne E Porter', 'Jennie L Beltran', 'Stephen M Kajiura', 'Thomas J Koob', 'Adam P Summers'], u'2013-07-25', u'Chondrichthyians (sharks, ratfish, and rays) can function at extremes (growing big, swimming fast, and eating hard-prey) suggesting their skeletons are experiencing loading regimes equal to or greater than those of other fishes. In most vertebrates, cartilage is a soft connective tissue serving two purposes; a low-friction bearing surface and contour filler; however, cartilaginous fishes maintain a skeleton made of cartilage throughout life. We examined material properties and biochemical components of cartilage from the jaws and/or chondrocranium of seven species of shark. For each species cylindrical plugs were drilled from the specimen, mineralized tesserae were removed, and plugs tested in compression to ten percent of initial thickness (\u03b5=0.10) at 2mm/sec. Stiffness and strength varied significantly among species and in both cases the chondrocranial properties were greater than those of the jaws. After materials testing, cartilage plugs were lyophilized to obtain water content; then collagen and proteoglycan was measured with hydroxyproline and DMMB assays, respectively. Water content was greatest in the chondrocranial cartilage while collagen content was consistent between the jaws and chondrocrania. However, proteoglycan content was greater in the jaw cartilage. The average values for water and proteoglycan content were consistent with mammalian cartilage, while collagen content was much lower than mammalian cartilage. Material properties and biochemical components were also similar to the mineralized cartilage found in elasmobranch vertebral cartilage.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/47/', ['Zoology', 'Anatomy and Physiology'], [u'Biological Sciences, Florida Atlantic University', u'Biology, Santa Ana College', u'Friday Harbor Laboratory, University of Washington']]
[u'Restore: An R of sustainability that can tame the \u201cconundrum\u201d', ['Eckart Bindewald'], u'2013-07-23', u'The environmental benefits of sustainability efforts can be rendered less effective due to economic feedback mechanisms. As a remedy against such rebound effects, a reinvestment strategy towards environmental causes has been suggested. Here, a practical implementation of such a reinvestment strategy is presented. It involves a) estimating the financial savings resulting from sustainability efforts, b) informing the participants that the environmental benefit of the efforts is reduced by economic feedback mechanisms and c) asking them to donate a fraction of the expected savings towards environmental causes. An easy-to-use methodology for estimating rebound effects of sustainability efforts is presented in order to quantify the efficacy of this approach. CO2 emission offsets are used as an example of donations towards environmental causes. It is shown, that donating even a small amount (less than 1% of financial savings obtained from conservation or engineering savings) of donated carbon offsets can more than eliminate the estimated rebound effects. This then leads to the restore principle, that states that the environmental benefit of reducing activities with average environmental impact is dramatically improved if a fraction of the resulting financial savings is applied towards environmental causes. This approach is made practical by augmenting the common reduce, reuse, recycle motto with a fourth component: reduce, reuse, recycle and restore.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/46/', ['Coupled Natural and Human Systems'], [u'Department of Mathematics, Frederick Community College']]
[u'On the relationship between native grouper and invasive lionfish in the Caribbean', ['Peter J Mumby', 'Daniel R Brumbaugh', 'Alastair R Harborne', 'George Roff'], u'2013-07-22', u'The Indo-Pacific lionfish, Pterois volitans, has invaded most of the Tropical Western Atlantic in the last few years. The degree to which populations of this invasive species can be controlled by native predatory fish (mostly grouper), is controversial with conflicting reports. Here, we review the evidence of two recent papers and point out some of the difficulties in inferring predator-limitation purely from observational data. A negative relationship has been found between large-bodied grouper and lionfish during early colonisation though the degree to which this is caused by direct predation versus behavioural mechanisms is unclear. Evidence to the contrary from a recent study suffers confounding effects of habitat quality, fishing, and dispersal and therefore remains equivocal.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/45/', ['Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'School of Biological Sciences, University of Queensland', u'Center for Biodiversity and Conservation, American Museum of Natural History', u'Institute of Marine Sciences, University of California']]
[u'Genetic profiling of the isoprenoid and sterol biosynthesis pathways of Trypanosoma cruzi', ['Raul O Cosentino', 'Patricio Diosque', 'Fernan Aguero'], u'2013-07-18', u'Background. Sterols such as cholesterol, are important components of cellular membranes. But unlike mammalian cells, the main sterols found in the membranes of trypanosomes and fungi are ergosterol, and other 24-methyl sterols, which are required for growth and viability. In spite of this strict requirement, this group of organisms have evolved different strategies to produce and/or obtain sterols. Trypanosoma cruzi is the causative agent of Chagas Disease. In this parasite, one of the few validated targets for chemotherapeutic intervention is the sterol biosynthesis pathway. In this work we present a study of the genetic diversity observed in genes of the isoprenoid and sterol biosynthesis pathways in T. cruzi, and a comparative analysis of the diversity found in other trypanosomatids.\nMethodology/Principal Findings. Using a number of bioinformatic strategies, we first completed a number of holes in the pathway by identifying the sequences of genes that were missing and/or were truncated in the draft T. cruzi genome. Based on this analysis we identified a non-orthologous homolog of the yeast ERG25 gene (sterol methyl oxidase, SMO) and propose that the orthologs of ERG25 have been lost in trypanosomes (but not in leishmanias). Next, starting from a set of 16 T. cruzi strains representative of six major evolutionary lineages, we have amplified and sequenced ~ 24Kbp from 18 genes of the pathway, and identified a total of 975 SNPs or fixed differences, of which 28% represent nonsynonymous changes. We observed different patterns of accumulation of nucleotide changes for different genes of the pathway, from genes with a density of substitutions ranging from those close to the average (~2.5/100 bp) to some showing a high number of changes (11.4/100 bp, for a putative lathosterol oxidase gene). The majority of genes are under apparent purifying selection. However, two genes (TcPMK, TcSMO-like) have a ratio of nonsynonymous to synonymous changes that is close to neutrality. None of the nonsynonymous changes identified affect a catalytic or a ligand binding site residue. However, after mapping these changes on top of available structural data, we identified a number of changes that are in the close vicinity (7 Angstrom) of key residues, and that could therefore be functionally important. A comparative analysis of the corresponding T. brucei and Leishmania genes, obtained from available complete genomes highlights a high degree of conservation of the pathway, but with differences in the genes that are under apparent purifying selection in each case.\nConclusions/Significance. We have identified a number of genes of the sterol biosynthesis pathway that were missing from the T. cruzi genome assembly. Also, we have identified unequal apparent selection acting on these genes, which may provide essential information for the future of drug development studies focused on this pathway.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/44/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Genomics', 'Parasitology'], [u'Instituto de Investigaciones Biotecnol\xf3gicas, Universidad de San Mart\xedn', u'Instituto de Patolog\xeda Experimental, Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de Salta']]
[u'Natural selection increases mutational robustness in complex diseases: Mendelian evidence from early versus late onset common diseases', ['Bora E Baysal'], u'2013-07-13', u"Background. Natural selection operates on genetically influenced phenotypic variations that confer differential survival or reproductive advantages. Common diseases are frequently associated with increased mortality and disability and complex heritable factors play an important role in their pathogenesis. Hence, common diseases should trigger the process of natural selection with subsequent population genetic response. However, empirical impact of natural selection on genetics of complex diseases is poorly understood. In this paper, I hypothesize that negative selection of diseased individuals leads to systemic genetic differences between common diseases that primarily occur before or during the reproductive years (early onset) and those that occur after the reproductive years (late onset).\nMethods. To test this hypothesis, a comprehensive literature survey of highly penetrant (80% or more) nonpleiotropic, nonsyndromic susceptibility genes (hereafter defined as Mendelian phenocopies) was completed for early versus late onset common diseases, organized using the World Health Organization (WHO) ICD-10 classification scheme. An average age at sporadic disease onset of 30 years was selected for dividing early versus late onset common diseases.\nResults. Mendelian phenocopies were identified for 16 primarily late onset common diseases from 9 distinct WHO diagnostic categories. Late onset common diseases with Mendelian phenocopies include papillary renal carcinoma, obesity, Alzheimer disease, Parkinson disease, frontotemporal dementia, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, primary open angle glaucoma, age-related hearing loss, coronary artery disease, stroke, pancreatitis, thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura, systemic lupus erythematosus, inclusion body myositis, Paget's disease of bone and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (steroid resistant). In contrast, no Mendelian phenocopy was found for any primarily early onset common disease (p<5.8x10-4). Thus, highly predictive rare variants are present for a subset of late onset common diseases, but not for early onset common diseases.\nDiscussion. These findings suggest that genetic architecture of early onset common diseases is more robust against the phenotypic expression of highly penetrant predisposing mutations than is the case for late onset common diseases. The primary candidate for increased genetic robustness in early onset common diseases is proposed to be natural selection.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/42/', ['Evolutionary Studies', 'Genetics', 'Medical Genetics', 'Public health'], [u'Pathology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute']]
[u'The interface between priming memory and the working memory', ['Graeme E. Smith'], u'2013-07-07', u'There is an interface between priming memory and working memory that acts to limit the amount of data in working memory, and also allows priming memory to be actively maintained so that memories stay intact while they are in working memory. This interface converts from functional clusters to chunks automatically as part of the transfer from priming to working memory. As a result, memories in working memory can be rehearsed in order to actively maintain them. This represents more than a change in state, it represents a radical change in the way memories are accessed. Priming memory without this stage can only be extended it cannot be refreshed and so there is a limit of about 3 seconds to how long it will last before it begins to degrade. With priming, an actively maintained and refreshed signal can last almost indefinitely.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/41/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Computational Science'], [u'GreySmith Institute of Advanced Studies']]
[u'Nine simple ways to make it easier to (re)use your data', ['Ethan P. White', 'Elita Baldridge', 'Zachary T. Brym', 'Kenneth J. Locey', 'Daniel J. McGlinn', 'Sarah R. Supp'], u'2013-07-05', u'Sharing data is increasingly considered to be an important part of the scientific process. Making your data publicly available allows original results to be reproduced and new analyses to be conducted. While sharing your data is the first step in allowing reuse, it is also important that the data be easy to understand and use. We describe nine simple ways to make it easy to reuse the data that you share and also make it easier to work with it yourself. Our recommendations focus on making your data understandable, easy to analyze, and readily available to the wider community of scientists.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/7/', ['Computational Biology', 'Ecology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Computational Science'], [u'Department of Biology and the Ecology Center, Utah State University', u'Department of Biology, Utah State University']]
[u'\xad\xadEnsemble-based network aggregation improves the accuracy of gene network reconstruction', ['Jeffrey D. Allen', 'Yang Xie', 'Guanghua Xiao'], u'2013-07-03', u'Reverse engineering approaches to construct context-specific gene regulatory networks (GRNs) based on genome-wide mRNA expression data have led to significant biological findings. However, the reliability and reproducibility of the reconstructed GRNs needs to be improved. Here, we propose an ensemble-based network aggregation approach to improve the accuracy of the network topology constructed from mRNA expression data. To evaluate the performance of different approaches, we created dozens of simulated networks and also tested our methods on three Escherichia coli datasets. We demonstrate three novel applications from this development. First, bootstrapping can be done on the available samples, turning any network reconstruction approach into an ensemble method. Second, this aggregation approach can be used to combine GRNs from different network inference methods, creating a novel network reconstruction approach that consistently outperforms any constituent method. Third, the approach can be used to effectively integrate GRNs constructed from different studies \u2013 producing more accurate networks. We are releasing an implementation of these techniques as an R package \u201cENA\u201d which is able to run network inference in parallel across multiple servers. We made all of the code and data used in our simulations and analysis available online at https://github.com/QBRC/ENA-Research to ensure the reproducibility of our results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/40/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Computational Science', 'Statistics'], [u'Quantitative Biomedical Research Center, UT Southwestern Medical Center']]
[u'Formalized synthesis opportunities for ecology: systematic reviews and meta-analyses', ['Christopher J. Lortie'], u'2013-07-03', u'Narrative reviews are dead. Long live systematic reviews (and meta-analyses). Synthesis in many forms is now a driving force in ecology. Advances in open big data for ecology and new tools provide vastly improved capacity for novel, emergent knowledge synthesis in our discipline. Systematic reviews and meta-analyses are two formal synthesis opportunities for ecologists. To date, systematic reviews are rarely used whilst the rate of meta-analyses published in ecological journals is increasing exponentially. Systematic reviews provide an overview of the literature landscape for a topic, and meta-analyses examine the strength of evidence integrated across different studies. Effective synthesis benefits from both approaches, but better data reporting and more rapid changes in the culture of data sharing will further energize these efforts. At this junction, synthetic efforts that include systematic reviews and meta-analyses should continue as stand-alone publications. This is a necessary step in the evolution of synthesis in our discipline. Nonetheless, they are still evolving tools, and meta-analyses in particular are simply an extended set of statistical tests. Admittedly, understanding the statistics and assumptions influence how we conduct synthesis much as statistical choices often shape experimental design, i.e. ANOVA versus regression-based experiments, but statistics do not make the paper. Clear ideas and excellent questions do. Titles with \u2018a meta-analysis of\u2026\u2019 in them may have their days numbered as these tools become more widely adopted and as we seek to integrate evidence across many scales not just between studies. Approaches associated with both sets will inevitably and appropriately also become routine mechanisms to contrast primary study-level research to the work of others. For instance, in the Introduction of a primary study, formal systematic review techniques are applied, the authors identify a gap that they proceed to examine within that particular study via an experiment, and in the Discussion, the strength of the evidence is linked to other effect size estimates reported in the literature. This is already occurring but will certainly become more frequent. First steps, primary research articles need to more effectively report evidence, we need to continue to share data, and systematic reviews and meta-analyses should be used to identify research gaps and examine patterns in evidence to further predictive ecology.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/39/', ['Ecology', 'Statistics'], [u'Department of Biology, York University']]
[u'Urimem, a membrane that can store urinary proteins simply and economically, makes the large-scale storage of clinical samples possible', ['Lulu Jia', 'Xuejiao Liu', 'Liu Liu', 'Mingxi Li', 'Youhe Gao'], u'2013-06-26', u'Biological samples from patients are invaluable for both medical research and medical practice. Ideally, the samples should be preserved for the same period of time as the duration of their corresponding medical records. Urine is a body fluid that can be non-invasively acquired, and it contains important biological information about the patient. Unlike blood which has mechanisms to keep the internal environment homeostatic, urine is more likely to reflect changes of the body. In other words, urine is likely to be a better biomarker source than blood. Here, we propose a method to adsorb urinary proteins onto a polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF) membrane called Urimem. The method is very simple and inexpensive and requires minimal sample handling. It does not use organic solvents, and it is environmentally friendly. The proteins on the membrane are dried and stored in vacuum bag, which keeps the protein pattern faithfully preserved. The membrane may even permit storage at room temperature for weeks. The quantity of eluted proteins from the membrane is sufficient for biomarker validation experiments. Using this simple and inexpensive urinary protein preservation method, it is possible to begin preserving urine samples from all consenting patients. Thus, medical research especially biomarker research can be conducted more economically, ultimately benefiting the patients who provided the samples. This sample storage approach can facilitate the biomarker research and potentially change the landscape of medical research and medical practice.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/37/', ['Biochemistry', 'Nephrology'], [u'Department of Physiology and Pathophysiology, National Key Laboratory of Medical Molecular Biology, Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences/Peking Union Medical College', u'Department of Nephrology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital', u'Department of Nephrology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of  Medical Sciences/Peking Union Medical College']]
[u'Primary memory is priming memory seen through the working memory viewpoint', ['Graeme E Smith'], u'2013-06-24', u"There are two streams of thought about memory that don't seem to jibe with each other, one thought stream works with implicit and explicit memory and one stream works with working memory. The problem is that the theories are not visible each within the other. In this article I attempt to combine the two threads of thought by pointing out a simple but overlooked identity between priming memory and primary memory, explaining why they look so different when looked at from their own particular threads of interpretation, and showing how the difference is really one of the interface between priming and working memory, not an incompatibility in design as first seems obvious.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/36/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Computational Science'], [u'GreySmith Institute of Advanced Studies']]
[u'Pairwise antagonism assay of clinical Acinetobacter isolates', ['Amy M Summers', 'Rae A Heitkamp', 'Sylvia Cheng', 'Benjamin C Kirkup'], u'2013-06-19', u"Many bacteria antagonize each other in nature; laboratory evidence of these interactions dates from 1925 (Gratia). However, antagonism assays are typically performed between a small number of 'sensitive' strains screening a range of potential 'killers' in the hunt for natural antibiotics, or a single 'killer' against a broad range of 'pathogens.' By contrast, several recent studies have performed pairwise assays across a range of organisms; including marine Vibrio (Cordero et al 2012) and fresh water Bacillus (Perez-Gutierrez et al 2012) strains. These studies have revealed some critical new microbial ecology by using the complete suite of antagonisms among strains. Environmental strains are often viewed as more microdiverse than clinical strains, in part because clinical strains experience purifying selection by the immune system and rapid population expansions. To explore the frequency and distribution of antagonism in clinical isolates, a pairwise antagonism dataset is being collected from clinical Acinetobacter. Significant method development has gone into finding a method robust and sensitive. Overnight cultures, grown in trypticase soy broth at 37\xb0C, are spread on trypticase soy agar to create a confluent bacterial lawn. Using a 96-well pin replicator, 94 isolates of Acinetobacter and two negative control checks are inoculated on the lawn. The plates are incubated at 37\xb0C for 18 to 24 hours and the assay scored for the presence or absence of a colony growing on the bacterial lawn and the presence or absence of a clearing around the inoculation points. The revealed suite of antagonisms is rich and diverse. 8,836 interactions were scored; of them, at least 5,640 are suggestive of antagonism. In a preliminary dataset, almost every strain already participates as an antagonist against some other strain. This is much higher than the frequencies reported in other environmental collections; and does not suggest a single ecological niche for the clinical strains. This data is collected in the context of antimicrobial susceptibilities and limited clinical metadata, providing a contrast to the environmental data which has been generated for the environmental strains. As we continue to collect antagonism data on clinical Acinetobacter isolates, we will learn more about the naturally occurring antimicrobial chemicals that these organisms produce and secrete.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/35/', ['Ecology', 'Microbiology', 'Infectious Diseases'], [u'Wound Infections, Walter Reed Army Institute of Research', u'Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences']]
[u'The angular gyrus model of consciousness', ['Graeme E Smith'], u'2013-06-13', u"The Angular Gyrus sits at the point where the Temporal and Parietal Lobes join. It is a point where integrative processes link together the Where and What pathways through the brain and link them to time. It is also the most likely location for at least two centers of consciousness. In this article the location is discussed and it's potential for a model of consciousness that replaces the Declarative Memory Model of Consciousness previously put forward. It's main benefit over the Declarative Memory Model of Consciousness is that it allows for the preservation of consciousness despite the loss of declarative memory in the cases of Medial Temporal Lobe injury/disease. However Connectome studies might support this model in that the TemporoParietal Fiber Intersection Area provides 7 different white matter tracts that intersect in this area.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/22/', ['Neuroscience', 'Computational Science'], [u'GreySmith Institute of Advanced Studies']]
[u'A wireless marker system to enable evoked potential recordings using a wireless EEG system (EPOC) and a portable computer', ['Johnson Thie'], u'2013-06-15', u'As wireless EEG devices have become affordable at low cost, have a small form factor and quick setup time, they can be deployed at universities and schools for teaching purposes. However they have not been applied for evoked potential recording since they lack an option to receive stimulus markers. Meanwhile evoked potential recording is required for functional assessment of the sensory systems such as auditory and visual. This paper describes a wireless system that embeds information about the stimulus in the EEG channels. The transmitter unit is connected to the stimulus device to detect the stimulus and transmit the stimulus information to the receiver unit. The receiver unit attached to two of the EEG electrodes decodes the information and generates a pulse across the electrodes. The pulse width conveys the information about the stimulus. Hence the stimuli are synchronised with the EEG data allowing users to evaluate the evoked potentials in the offline processing. The wireless marker system was verified with audio stimuli consisting of 1000Hz and 1200Hz tones and reliably generated pulses with 100ms and 200ms width respectively. The delay between the onset of the tone and the onset of the pulse was 19.3 +/- 0.1ms. Since the variability of the delay was under 1ms and so negligible, the evoked potentials could be evaluated reliably. The evoked potential could be shifted back by 19.3ms to compensate for the delay. The system was also verified with a black-and-white checkerboard pattern stimuli and reliably generated pulses with 100ms width when the pattern reversed. The delay between the onset of the reversal and the onset of the pulse was 6.4ms. Similarly the variability of the delay was negligible.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/32/', ['Bioengineering', 'Neuroscience'], [u'School of Electrical and Information Engineering, The University of Sydney']]
[u'Extended consciousness as revealed by the angular gyrus model of consciousness', ['Graeme E Smith'], u'2013-06-11', u'The Extended Consciousness builds on the strengths of the proto conscious and the core consciousness to add a sense of experience onto the basic alertness provided by core consciousness. The Angular Gyrus Model of Consciousness provides some hints as to how the experential image is built. In this article I explore the role of the Temporal-Parietal Fiber Intersection Area in providing links between other parts of the brain and the Angular Gyrus that encourage the formation of the experential image.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/31/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Computational Science'], [u'GreySmith Institute of Advanced Studies']]
[u'DNA methylation marks inter-nucleosome linker regions throughout the human genome', ['Benjamin P. Berman', 'Yaping Liu', 'Theresa K. Kelly'], u'2013-06-11', u'Background: Nucleosome organization and DNA methylation are two mechanisms that are important for proper control of mammalian transcription, as well as epigenetic dysregulation associated with cancer. Whole-genome DNA methylation sequencing studies have found that methylation levels in the human genome show periodicities of approximately 190 bp, suggesting a genome-wide relationship between the two marks. A recent report (Chodavarapu et al., 2010) attributed this to higher methylation levels of DNA within nucleosomes. Here, we analyzed a number of published datasets and found a more compelling alternative explanation, namely that methylation levels are highest in linker regions between nucleosomes.\nResults: Reanalyzing the data from (Chodavarapu et al., 2010), we found that nucleosome-associated methylation could be strongly confounded by known sequence-related biases of the next-generation sequencing technologies. By accounting for these biases and using an unrelated nucleosome profiling technology, NOMe-seq, we found that genome-wide methylation was actually highest within linker regions occurring between nucleosomes in multi-nucleosome arrays. This effect was consistent among several methylation datasets generated independently using two unrelated methylation assays. Linker-associated methylation was most prominent within long Partially Methylated Domains (PMDs) and the positioned nucleosomes that flank CTCF binding sites. CTCF adjacent nucleosomes retained the correct positioning in regions completely devoid of CpG dinucleotides, suggesting that DNA methylation is not required for proper nucleosomes positioning.\nConclusions: The biological mechanisms responsible for DNA methylation patterns outside of gene promoters remain poorly understood. We identified a significant genome-wide relationship between nucleosome organization and DNA methylation, which can be used to more accurately analyze and understand the epigenetic changes that accompany cancer and other diseases.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/27/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'USC Epigenome Center, University of Southern California', u'Division of Bioinformatics, Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Southern California', u'USC/Norris Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Southern California', u'Graduate Program in Genetic, Molecular and Cellular Biology, University of Southern California']]
[u'The Vertebrate Taxonomy Ontology: A framework for reasoning across model organism and species phenotypes', ['Peter E Midford', 'T Alex Dececchi', 'James P Balhoff', 'Wasila M Dahdul', 'Nizar Ibrahim', 'Hilmar Lapp', 'John G Lundberg', 'Paula M Mabee', 'Paul C Sereno', 'Monte Westerfield', 'Todd J Vision', 'David C Blackburn'], u'2013-06-05', u'Background: A hierarchical taxonomy of organisms is a prerequisite for semantic integration of biodiversity data. Ideally, there would be a single, expansive, authoritative taxonomy that includes extinct and extant taxa, information on synonyms and common names, and monophyletic supraspecific taxa that reflect our current understanding of phylogenetic relationships.\nDescription: As a step towards development of such a resource, and to enable large-scale integration of phenotypic data across the vertebrates, we created the Vertebrate Taxonomy Ontology (VTO), a semantically defined taxonomic resource derived from the integration of existing taxonomic compilations, and freely distributed under a Creative Commons Zero (CC0) public domain waiver. The VTO includes both extant and extinct vertebrates and currently contains 106,927 taxonomic terms, 23 taxonomic ranks, 104,506 synonyms, and 162,132 taxonomic cross-references. Key challenges in constructing the VTO included (1) extracting and merging names, synonyms, and identifiers from heterogeneous sources; (2) replacing subgroups with more authoritative local taxonomies; and (3) automating this process as much as possible to accommodate updates in source taxonomies.\nConclusions: The VTO is the primary source of taxonomic information used by the Phenoscape Knowledgebase (http://phenoscape.org/), which integrates genetic and evolutionary phenotype data across both model and nonmodel vertebrates. The VTO is useful for crudely inferring phenotypic changes on the vertebrate tree of life, which enables queries for candidate genes for different episodes in vertebrate evolution.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/28/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Paleontology', 'Taxonomy'], [u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Kansas', u'National Evolutionary Synthesis Center', u'Department of Biology, University of South Dakota', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina', u'Department of Organismal Biology and Anatomy, University of Chicago', u'Academy of Natural Sciences', u'Institute of Neuroscience, University of Oregon', u'Department of Vertebrate Zoology and Anthropology, California Academy of Sciences']]
[u"Strong genetic structure among coral populations within a conservation priority region, the Bird's Head Seascape (Papua and West Papua, Indonesia)", ['Craig J Starger', 'Paul H Barber', 'Mark V Erdmann', 'Abdul H. A. Toha', 'Andrew C Baker'], u'2013-05-31', u"Marine Protected Areas (MPAs) are widely considered to be one of the best strategies available for protecting species diversity and ecosystem processes in marine environments,  particularly in developing, tropical nations. While data on connectivity and genetic structure of marine populations are critical to designing appropriately sized and spaced networks of MPAs, such data are rarely available. Here we present an assessment of genetic structure in reef-building corals from Papua and West Papua, Indonesia, among the most biologically diverse and least disturbed coral reef regions in the world, and the focus of the multi-institutional Bird's Head Seascape initiative to design and implement a functional network of MPAs. Microsatellite variation was assessed within and among populations of Pocillopora damicornis (Linnaeus , 1758) and Seriatopora hystrix (Dana 1846) (family: Pocilloporidae) from three regions, each currently under a different conservation regime: Teluk Cenderawasih, Raja Ampat, and southwest Papua. Analyses of molecular variance, assignment tests, and genetical bandwidth mapping revealed significant local-scale structure in both species, and a lack of regional filters to gene flow. Overall, P. damicornis populations were less structured (FST = 0.139, p < 0.00001) than those of S. hystrix (FST = 0.357, p < 0.00001). In order to maintain connectivity within and among regions, coral reef conservation on the local scale is needed. These data have been directly applied to the design of a MPA network in the Bird\u2019s Head Seascape.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/25/', ['Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Genetics', 'Marine Biology', 'Science Policy'], [u'Science & Technology Policy Fellowships, Center of Science, Policy & Society Programs, American Association for the Advancement of Science', u'Department of Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, Columbia University', u'Sackler Institute for Comparative Genomics, American Museum of Natural History', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of California', u'Indonesia Marine Program, Conservation International', u'Faculty of Animal Sciences, Fisheries and Marine Science, State University of Papua', u'Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami', u'Marine Conservation Program, Wildlife Conservation Society']]
[u'The evolution of Predictive Adaptive Responses in human life history', ['Daniel Nettle', 'Willem E Frankenhuis', 'Ian J Rickard'], u'2013-05-28', u'Many studies have shown that adverse experience in early life is associated with accelerated reproductive timing in humans. There are two different classes of adaptive explanation for such associations. Both can be seen as predictive adaptive responses (PARs). According to external PAR hypotheses, early-life adversity provides a \u2018weather forecast\u2019 of the environmental conditions into which the individual will mature, and it is adaptive for the individual to develop an appropriate phenotype for this anticipated environment. In internal PAR hypotheses, early-life adversity has a lasting negative impact on the individual\u2019s somatic state, such that her health is likely to fail more rapidly as she gets older, and there is an advantage to adjusting her reproductive schedule accordingly. We use a model of fluctuating environments to derive evolveability conditions for acceleration of reproductive timing in response to early-life adversity. For acceleration to evolve via the external PAR process, early-life cues must have a high degree of validity and the level of annual autocorrelation in the individual\u2019s environment must be almost perfect. For acceleration to evolve via the internal PAR process requires that early-life experience must determine a significant fraction of the variance in survival prospects in adulthood. The two processes are not mutually exclusive, and mechanisms for calibrating reproductive timing on the basis of early experience could evolve through a combination of the predictive value of early-life adversity for the later environment and its negative impact on somatic state.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/23/', ['Anthropology', 'Developmental Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Centre for Behaviour and Evolution, Newcastle University', u'Department of Developmental Psychology, Radboud University', u'Department of Anthropology, Durham University']]
[u'Area-based sampling for an epidemiological study on injury patterns and risk factors in a low-income urban setting in sub-Saharan Africa', ['Michael L Wilson', 'Stephen P. Seifert'], u'2013-05-30', u'Unintentional injuries represent an important health threat to the lives of children and adolescents world-wide. The epidemic of injury and resulting harm such as disability or death, are likely to be the most severe in the low- and middle-income countries of the African continent. The following paper is intended to document an area-based sampling method designed to facilitate an epidemiological study to examine injury patterns among children and adolescents in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. We used official census data and geographic information system software to create a series of area maps for Dar es Salaam city. Then, based on these maps, we identified population clusters for sampling based on area population density.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/24/', ['Epidemiology', 'Public health'], [u'Centre for Injury Prevention and Community Safety (CIPCS), PeerCorps Trust Fund']]
[u'A formal approach to the molecular fuzzy lock-and-key', ['Rodrick Wallace'], u'2013-05-27', u"The fuzzy lock-and-key (FLK) powers a vast array of sophisticated logic gates at inter- and intra-cellular levels. We invoke representations of groupoid tiling wreath products analogous to the study of nonrigid molecules - or of related fuzzy symmetry extensions - to build a Morse Function that can describe spontaneous symmetry breaking phase transitions driven by information catalysis. The Function can, however, also be used to construct an Onsager-like stochastic dynamics, linked to the phase transition approach by the rich stability criteria associated with stochastic differential equations. The two methods provide complementary ways of looking at the FLK. A limit condition emerging from the stochastic dynamics gives insight into a cellular 'generalized inflammation' requiring progressively higher commitment of metabolic free energy for maintenance of basic FLK processes. These results suggest that more systematic study may illuminate pathologies associated with the failure of the FLK, a centrally-important but enigmatic biological process.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/20/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics', 'Cell Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Translational Medicine'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Making research data repositories visible: the re3data.org registry', ['Heinz Pampel', 'Paul Vierkant', 'Frank Scholze', 'Roland Bertelmann', 'Maxi Kindling', 'Jens Klump', 'Hans-Jurgen Goebelbecker', 'Jens Gundlach', 'Peter Schirmbacher', 'Uwe Dierolf'], u'2013-05-24', u'Researchers require infrastructures that ensure a maximum of accessibility, stability and reliability to facilitate working with and sharing of research data. Such infrastructures are being increasingly summarized under the term Research Data Repositories (RDR). The project re3data.org \u2013 Registry of Research Rata Repositories has begun to index research data repositories in 2012 and offers researchers, funding organizations, libraries and publishers an overview of the heterogeneous research data repository landscape. Information icons help researchers to easily identify an adequate repository for the storage and reuse of their data. This article describes the RDR landscape, outlines the practicality of re3data.org as a service, and shows how this service helps to find research data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/21/', ['Computational Science', 'Legal Issues', 'Science Policy'], [u'Library and Information Services (LIS), Deutsches GeoForschungsZentrum GFZ', u'Berlin School of Library and Information Science, Humboldt-Universit\xe4t zu Berlin', u'KIT Library, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT)', u'Centre for GeoInformation Technology (CeGIT), Deutsches GeoForschungsZentrum GFZ']]
[u'Magic Strategies: the basic biology of multilevel, multiscale, health promotion', ['Rodrick Wallace', 'Deborah Wallace'], u'2013-05-21', u"A survey of the cultural psychology and related literatures suggests that Western biomedicine's fascination with atomistic, individual-oriented, interventions is a cultural artifact that may have little consonance with complex, subtle, multiscale, multilevel, social, ecological, or biological realities. Other cultural traditions may, in fact, view atomistic strategies as inherently unreal. A contrary perspective - similar to that of health promotion - suggests that the most effective medical or public health interventions must be analogously patterned across scale and level of organization: 'magic strategies' will almost always be synergistically - and often emergently - more effective than 'magic bullets'. The result can be formally derived in a relatively straightforward manner using an adaptation of the Black-Scholes economietric model, applied here to the metabolic cost of bioregulation under uncertainty. Multifactorial interventions focused at the human 'keystone' ecosystem level of mesoscale social and geographic groupings may be particularly effective. The analysis indicates that there is unlikely to be much in the way of 'simple' chronic disease. That is, serious comorbidity is usually inevitable, and may often be a consequence of therapeutic intervention itself. Study suggests that pairing of medical and prevention strategies with appropriate mesoscale neighborhood/social network interventions would: (1) Damp down unwanted treatment side effects. (2) Make the therapeutic alliance between practitioner and patient more effective. (3) Improve patient compliance. (4) Enhance placebo effect. (5) In the context of real stress reduction, synergistically improve the actual biological impacts of medical interventions or prevention strategies.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/8/', ['Drugs and Devices', 'Epidemiology', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Health Policy', 'Public health'], [u'Division of Epidemiology, New York State Psychiatric Institute']]
[u'Coral reef baselines: how much macroalgae is natural?', ['John F Bruno', 'William F Precht', 'Peter S Vroom', 'Richard B. Aronson'], u'2013-05-19', u'Identifying the baseline or natural state of an ecosystem is a critical step in effective conservation and restoration. Like most marine ecosystems, coral reefs are being degraded by human activities: corals and fish have declined in abundance and seaweeds, or macroalgae, have become more prevalent. The challenge for resource managers is to reverse these trends, but by how much? Based on surveys of Caribbean reefs in the 1970s, most reef scientists believe that the average cover of seaweed was very low in the natural state. On the other hand, evidence from remote Pacific reefs, ecological theory, and impacts of over-harvesting in other systems all suggest that, historically, macroalgal biomass may have been higher than assumed. Uncertainties about the natural state of coral reefs illustrate the difficulty of determining the baseline condition of even well-studied systems.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/19/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill', u'Marine & Coastal Programs, Dial Cordy & Associates, Inc.', u'Ocean Associates, NOAA Pacific Island Fisheries Science Center Coral Reef Ecosystem Division', u'Department of Biological Sciences, Florida Institute of Technology']]
[u'Supertrees based on the subtree prune-and-regraft distance', ['Chris Whidden', 'Norbert Zeh', 'Robert G Beiko'], u'2013-05-10', u'Supertree methods reconcile a set of phylogenetic trees into a single structure that is often interpreted as a branching history of species. A key challenge is combining conflicting evolutionary histories that are due to artifacts of phylogenetic reconstruction and phenomena such as lateral gene transfer (LGT). Although they often work well in practice, existing supertree approaches use optimality criteria that do not reflect underlying processes, have known biases and may be unduly influenced by LGT. We present the first method to construct supertrees by using the subtree prune-and-regraft (SPR) distance as an optimality criterion. Although calculating the rooted SPR distance between a pair of trees is NP-hard, our new maximum agreement forest-based methods can reconcile trees with hundreds of taxa and > 50 transfers in fractions of a second, which enables repeated calculations during the course of an iterative search. Our approach can accommodate trees in which uncertain relationships have been collapsed to multifurcating nodes. Using a series of simulated benchmark datasets, we show that SPR supertrees are more similar to correct species histories under plausible rates of LGT than supertrees based on parsimony or Robinson-Foulds distance criteria. We successfully constructed an SPR supertree from a phylogenomic dataset of 40,631 gene trees that covered 244 genomes representing several major bacterial phyla. Our SPR-based approach also allowed direct inference of highways of gene transfer between bacterial classes and genera; a small number of these highways connect genera in different phyla and can highlight specific genes implicated in long-distance LGT.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/18/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Microbiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Computer Science, Dalhousie University']]
[u'Microenvironmental variables need to effect intrinsic phenotypic parameters of cancer stem cells to affect tumourigenicity', ['Jacob G Scott', 'Prakash Chinnaiyan', 'Alexander ARA Anderson', 'Anita Hjelmeland', 'David Basanta'], u'2013-05-08', u'Since the discovery of tumour initiating cells (TICs) in solid tumours, studies focussing on their role in cancer initiation and progression have abounded. The biological interrogation of these cells continues to yield volumes of information on their pro-tumourigenic behaviour, but actionable generalised conclusions have been scarce. Further, new information suggesting a dependence of tumour composition and growth on the microenvironment has yet to be studied theoretically. To address this point, we created a hybrid, discrete/continuous computational cellular automaton model of a generalised stem-cell driven tissue with a simple microenvironment. Using the model we explored the phenotypic traits inherent to the tumour initiating cells and the effect of the microenvironment on tissue growth. We identify the regions in phenotype parameter space where TICs are able to cause a disruption in homeostasis, leading to tissue overgrowth and tumour maintenance. As our parameters and model are non- specific, they could apply to any tissue TIC and do not assume specific genetic mutations. Targeting these phenotypic traits could represent a generalizable therapeutic strategy across cancer types. Further, we find that the microenvironmental variable does not strongly effect the outcomes, suggesting a need for direct feedback from the microenvironment onto stem-cell behaviour in future modelling endeavours.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/17/', ['Mathematical Biology', 'Oncology', 'Computational Science'], [u'Centre for Mathematical Biology, University of Oxford', u'Integrated Mathematical Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute', u'Radiation Oncology, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute', u'Stem Cell Biology  and Regenerative Medicine, Cleveland Clinic']]
[u'The role of Twitter in the life cycle of a scientific publication', ['Emily S Darling', 'David Shiffman', 'Isabelle M. Cote', 'Joshua A Drew'], u'2013-05-07', u"Twitter is a micro-blogging social media platform for short messages that can have a long-term impact on how scientists create and publish ideas. We investigate the usefulness of twitter in the development and distribution of scientific knowledge. At the start of the 'life cycle' of a scientific publication, twitter provides a large virtual department of colleagues that can help to rapidly generate, share and refine new ideas. As ideas become manuscripts, twitter can be used as an informal arena for the pre-review of works in progress. Finally, tweeting published findings can communicate research to a broad audience of other researchers, decision makers, journalists and the general public that can amplify the scientific and social impact of publications. However, there are limitations, largely surrounding issues of intellectual property and ownership, inclusiveness and misrepresentations of science \u2018sound bites\u2019. Nevertheless, we believe twitter is a useful social media tool that can provide a valuable contribution to scientific publishing in the 21st century.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/16/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, Simon Fraser University', u'Leonard and Jayne Abess Center for Ecosystem Science and Policy,, Univeristy of Miami', u'Ecology, Evolution and Environmental Biology, Columbia University']]
[u'GenGIS 2: Geospatial analysis of traditional and genetic biodiversity, with new gradient algorithms and an extensible plugin framework', ['Robert G Beiko', 'Donovan H Parks', 'Timothy Mankowski', 'Somayyeh Zangooei', 'Michael S Porter', 'David G Armanini', 'Donald J Baird', 'Morgan G I Langille'], u'2013-05-02', u'GenGIS is free and open source software designed to integrate biodiversity data with a digital map and information about geography and habitat. While originally developed with microbial community analyses and phylogeography in mind, GenGIS has been applied to a wide range of datasets. A key feature of GenGIS is the ability to test geographic axes that can correspond to routes of migration or gradients that influence community similarity. Here we introduce GenGIS version 2, which extends the linear gradient tests introduced in the first version to allow comprehensive testing of all possible linear geographic axes. GenGIS v2 also includes a new plugin framework that supports the development and use of graphically driven analysis packages: initial plugins include implementations of linear regression and the Mantel test, calculations of alpha-diversity (e.g., Shannon Index) for all samples, and geographic visualizations of dissimilarity matrices. We have also implemented a recently published method for biomonitoring reference condition analysis (RCA), which compares observed species richness and diversity to predicted values to determine whether a given site has been impacted. The newest version of GenGIS supports vector data in addition to raster files. We demonstrate the new features of GenGIS by performing a full gradient analysis of an Australian kangaroo apple data set, by using plugins and embedded statistical commands to analyze human microbiome sample data, and by applying RCA to a set of samples from Atlantic Canada.GenGIS release versions, tutorials and documentation are freely available at http://kiwi.cs.dal.ca/GenGIS, and source code is available at https://github.com/beiko-lab/gengis.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/15/', ['Biodiversity', 'Biogeography', 'Bioinformatics', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Faculty of Computer Science, Dalhousie University', u'Australian Centre for Ecogenomics, The University of Queensland', u'Computer Science, Dalhousie University', u'Prothea srl', u'Environment Canada @ Canadian Rivers Institute, University of New Bunswick', u'Environment Canada @ Canadian Rivers Institute, University of New Brunswick']]
[u'Data reuse and scholarly reward: understanding practice and building infrastructure', ['Todd J Vision', 'Heather A Piwowar'], u'2013-04-29', u'Recently introduced funding agency policies seek to increase the availability of data from individual published studies for reuse by the research community at large. The success of such policies can be measured both by data input (\u201cis useful data being made available?\u201d) and research output (\u201care these data being reused by others?\u201d). A key determinant of data input is the extent to which data producers receive adequate professional credit for making data available. One of us (HP) previously reported a large citation difference for published microarray studies with and without data available in a public repository. Analysis of a much larger sample, with more covariates, provides a more reliable estimate of this citation boost, as well as additional insights into patterns of reuse and how the availability of data affects publication impact. A more recent study tracking the reuse of 100 datasets from each of ten different primary data repositories reveals large variation in patterns of reuse and citation. Our findings (a) illuminate ways in which the reuses of archived data tend to differ in purpose from that of the original producers; (b) inform data archiving policy, such as how long data embargoes need to be in order to protect the proprietary interests of producers; (c) and allow us to answer the vexing question of what the return on investment is for data archiving. In conducting these studies, we have become aware of gaps in data citation practice and infrastructure that limit the extent to which researchers receive credit for their contributions. We describe early efforts to bake good data citation and usage tracking into cyberinfrastructure as part of DataONE, the Data Observation Network for Earth. Finally, we introduce total-impact, a tool that allows researchers to track the diverse impacts of all their research outputs, including data, and empowers them to be recognized for their scholarly work on their own terms.\nSoftware and Data Availability:\nResearch software and data: https://github.com/hpiwowar (CCZero for data where possible, MIT for code);\nDryad: new BSD license: http://code.google.com/p/dryad;\nDataONE: Apache license: http://www.dataone.org/developer-resources;\ntotal-impact: MIT license: https://github.com/total-impact.\nThis is an abstract that was submitted to the iEvoBio 2012 conference, held on July 10-11, 2012, in Ottawa, Canada.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/14/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Science Policy'], [u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina', u'National Evolutionary Synthesis Center, Duke University']]
[u'The four pillars of scholarly publishing: The future and a foundation', ['Jarrett E.K. Byrnes', 'Edward Baskerville', 'Bruce Caron', 'Cameron Neylon', 'Carol Tenopir', 'Mark Schildhauer', 'Amber Budden', 'Lonnie Aarssen', 'Christopher J Lortie'], u'2013-04-25', u'With the rise of electronic publishing and the inherent paradigm shifts for so many other scientific endeavours, it is time to consider a change in the practices of scholarly publication in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology.  To facilitate the speed and quality of science, the future of scholarly communication will rest on four pillars - an ecosystem of scholarly products, immediate and open access, open peer review, and full recognition for participating in the process. These four pillars enable us to build better tools to facilitate the discovery of new relevant work for individual scientists, one of the greatest challenges of our time as we cope with the current deluge of scientific information. By incorporating these principles into future publication platforms, we argue that science and society will be better served than by remaining locked into a publication formula that arose in the 1600s. It has served its purpose admirably and well, but it is time to move forward. With the rise of the Internet, scholarly publishing has embraced electronic distribution. But the tools afforded by the Internet and other advancing technologies have profound implications for scholarly communication beyond just distribution. We argue that, to best serve science, the process of scholarly communication must embrace these advances and evolve. Here we consider the current state of the process in ecology and evolutionary biology and propose directions for change. We identify four pillars for the future of scientific communication: (1) an ecosystem of scholarly products; (2) immediate and open access; (3) open peer review; and (4) full recognition for participating in the process. These four pillars will guide the development of better tools and practices for discovering and sharing scientific knowledge in a modern networked world. Things were far different when the existing system arose in the 1600s, and though it has served its purpose admirably and well, it is time to move forward.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/11/', ['Ecology', 'Environmental Sciences', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Science Policy'], [u'Biology Department, University of Massachusetts Boston', u'Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Michigan', u'New Media Research Institute, New Media Studio, Inc.', u'Public Library of Science', u'School of Information Sciences, University of Tennessee Knoxville', u'National Center for Ecological Analysis and Synthesis, University of California Santa Barbara', u"Department of Biology, Queen's University", u'Department of Biology, York University']]
[u'On the accurate description of social and genetic mating systems', ['Matthew D MacManes'], u'2013-04-23', u'Mating systems are critical determinants of the intensity of sexual selection and sexual conflict, but understanding how variation in reproductive behavior influences these phenomena requires consistent, accurate descriptions of the array of mating arrangements observed in nature. As understanding of animal mating systems has evolved, behavioral ecologists have shifted from using behavioral information to an increasing reliance on genetic data to characterize patterns of reproductive behavior and success. Although genetic data are critical for an accurate accounting of parentage and reproductive success, they exclude critical information regarding the nature of behavioral relationships among reproductive partners, thereby potentially confounding fundamentally different types of mating systems. I contend that the ability to identify common evolutionary trends and their underlying selective pressures is significantly enhanced by using a terminological framework that differentiates explicitly between social and genetic mating systems. Furthermore, inclusion of both types of information can reveal new and intriguing relationships between behavior and fitness that further our understanding of how selection shapes mating systems. Here, I offer behavioral ecologists a new terminological framework for the study of mating systems that allows us to more appropriately merge genetic with behavioral data in an attempt to improve our understanding of this critical aspect of animal behavior.  Lastly, I suggest a potential way in which we can begin to fully embrace the complexity of animal mating systems, in part via the adoption of a more quantitative framework for behavioral and genetic data.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/10/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Zoology'], [u'QB3, University of California, Berkeley']]
[u'Fast Track DNA Analysis Suite for human identification', ['Peter T Docker', 'Joanna Baker', 'Steve Haswell'], u'2013-04-10', u'This paper details the development of a portable \u2018Lab on chip\u2019 DNA analyser that was developed to facilitate rapid analysis of DNA samples for \u2018at scene of crime\u2019 and in custody suite situations where human identification is required rapidly. This system was proven to work with human DNA for 3 loci, namely    VWA, D21 and D18 taken from raw sample through PCR separation to detection within 90miniutes. Once the sample was loaded onto the microfluidic chip which in turn was loaded into the instrument no further human interaction took place. This paper details the approach to the biochemistry, hardware before going on to give results proving the proof of principle and then the authors\u2019 conclusions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/6/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Genetics', 'Genomics'], [u'Technical, Diamond Light Source', u'Department of Biology, University of Reading', u'Department of Life Sciences, University of Reading', u'Department of Chemistry, University of Hull']]
[u'The manufacture and preliminary testing of a novel Bio-MEMS filtration chip', ['Peter T Docker', 'Mark Prince', 'Xianghong Ma', 'Mike Ward', 'Peter Kinnell'], u'2013-04-09', u'In the clinical/microbiological laboratory there are currently several ways of separating specific cells from a fluid suspension. Conventionally cells can be separated based on size, density, electrical charge, light-scattering properties, and antigenic surface properties. Separating cells using these parameters can require complex technologies and specialist equipment which may damage sensitive cells. The pumping mechanism described here leaves samples undamaged either mechanically or chemically unlike many other current filtration techniques. This paper proposes new Bio-MEMS filtration chips manufactured using micro systems technology (MST) that, when used in conjunction with an optical microscope and a syringe, can filter and grade cells for size without the requirement for additional expensive equipment. These chips also offer great versatility in terms of design and their low cost allows them to be disposable, eliminating sample contamination.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/5/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioengineering', 'Biotechnology', 'Cell Biology'], [u'Diamond Light Source', u'Department of Engineering, Aston University', u'Department of Engineering, University of Birmingham', u'Department of Engineering, University of Nottingham']]
[u'Selective comparability and physiological studies of lactic acid bacteria protease and  Calotropis procera   (linn) extracts', ['Abiodun O Akinkugbe', 'Abiodun A Onilude'], u'2013-04-05', u'The West African soft cheese (wara) is traditionally produced using latex extracts of the leaves of Calotropis procera. Even though no death has been apparently traced to it, the extract is said to be poisonous causing death by paralysis of the heart. This project, therefore, aims at obtaining an alternative (in this case lactic acid bacteria protease) to the latex extract of C. procera in order to rule out possible poisoning effect. The physiological characteristics of such alternative protease was studied and compared to that of the extracts from C. procera.      Seven lactic acid bacteria species were isolated from samples of the West African soft cheese (wara) obtained from local retailers. They were identified as   Streptococcus lactis  , Streptococcus pyogenes, Lactobacillus acidophilus, Lactobacillus brevis, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis and Streptococcus faecalis. The isolates were subjected to growth and protease production studies.  Optimization of protease production was carried out on three selected isolates - Streptococcus lactis, Lactobacillus acidophilus and Lactococcus lactis.  Enzymes obtained were further characterized and separated using molecular exclusion procedures. Results obtained were compared to those of different extracts of C. procera.    It was observed that Streptococcus lactis had the highest (4.25 units/ml) protease production at 28\xb0C after 72 hours with peptone and casein as nitrogen sources in the presence of glucose as carbon source. The ethanolic extract of Calotropis procera had the highest protease activity (12.60 units/ml) at 5% substrate concentration. Lactococcus lactis and C. procera extracts were inhibited (0.00 units/ml) at 0.2M and 0.3M concentrations EDTA respectively thus suggesting the presence of a metallic protease. Na2+    ion was seen to enhance protease activity in all the extracts. Comparative results show that Streptococcus lactis   protease had a Km of 0.42 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 2.0; Lactobacillus acidophilus protease had a Km of 0.77 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 2.50; Lactococcus lactis protease had a Km of 3.3 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 0.87; The crude extract of Calotropis procera had a Km of 5.0 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 1.54; the ethanolic extract of C. procera had a Km of 2.44 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 8.77 while the methanolic extract of C. procera had a Km of 5.0 mg/ml for casein at a Vmax of 4.17.    In conclusion, the lactic acid bacteria protease from Streptococcus lactis was found to fare better physiologically, while the protease from the ethanolic extract of C. procera faired better amongst the plant extracts.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/4/', ['Food Science and Technology', 'Microbiology'], [u'Department of Microbiology, University of Ibadan']]
[u'How to turn USA science degrees into science careers', ['Allison Stelling'], u'2013-04-05', u'This essay discusses the current situation in USA Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) higher education. Possible solutions to the current "skills gap" facing an entire generation of young Americans are considered. It is put forth that an "Industry PhD" may be helpful for guiding the next generation of scientists into stable careers in the sciences. Discovery science, wherein one discovers natural laws of the universe, requires a different toolkit than one needs for doing applied science. This is the proposed "Academic PhD" track. Applied science is usually focused around a three to five year targeted plan, with a directly patentable application as the "end product". Discovery science usually takes longer, and is by its very nature uncertain. However, one must discover natural laws before one can apply and patent them. Both "Academic PhD" and "Industry PhD" tracks are required for healthy economic growth in industrial nations.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/3/', ['Science and Medical Education'], []]
[u'A marker circuit to enable recording of auditory evoked potential using a wireless EEG system (EPOC) and a portable computer', ['Johnson Thie'], u'2013-04-04', u"This paper describes a circuit that enables auditory evoked potential recordings using a wireless EEG device (Emotiv     EPOC) and a portable computer as the stimulus machine. The need arises since neither the portable computer nor   EPOC   has serial/parallel ports to send/receive marker signals that indicate the stimulus onset. The circuit produces a pulse on the EEG channels when it detects an audio stimulus. First it amplifies the audio tones produced by the stimulus machine and detects their envelope. If the envelope exceeds the threshold, it will activate the emitter side of an   optocoupler. This in turn switches on the photo-transistor of the   optocoupler   and produces a pulse that is electrically isolated from the stimulus machine. The pulse's amplitude is reduced to at most 300 microvolts using a voltage divider and is fed to a pair of the EEG channels. The delay between the output pulse and the onset of the 1 kHz audio tone is under 1 ms   when the tone is instantly switched on and hence insignificant. Each of the two EEG channels was also biased to   DRL   via a 4.7 kohm resistor so that it is free from EEG and movement   artifact.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/2/', ['Bioengineering', 'Neuroscience', 'Neurology'], [u'School of Electrical and Information Engineering, The University of Sydney']]
[u'Data reuse and the open data citation advantage', ['Heather Piwowar', 'Todd J Vision'], u'2013-04-04', u'BACKGROUND:     Attribution to the original contributor upon reuse of published data is important both as a reward for data creators and to document the provenance of research findings. Previous studies have found that papers with publicly available datasets receive a higher number of citations than similar studies without available data. However, few previous analyses have had the statistical power to control for the many variables known to predict citation rate, which has led to uncertain estimates of the \u201ccitation boost\u201d. Furthermore, little is known about patterns in data reuse over time and across datasets.\nMETHOD AND RESULTS:     Here, we look at citation rates while controlling for many known citation predictors, and investigate the variability of data reuse. In a multivariate regression on 10,555 studies that created gene expression microarray data, we found that studies that made data available in a public repository received 9% (95% confidence interval: 5% to 13%) more citations than similar studies for which the data was not made available. Date of publication, journal impact factor, open access status, number of authors, first and last author publication history, corresponding author country, institution citation history, and study topic were included as covariates. The citation boost varied with date of dataset deposition: a citation boost was most clear for papers published in 2004 and 2005, at about 30%. Authors published most papers using their own datasets within two years of their first publication on the dataset, whereas data reuse papers published by third-party investigators continued to accumulate for at least six years. To study patterns of data reuse directly, we compiled 9,724 instances of third party data reuse via mention of GEO or ArrayExpress accession numbers in the full text of papers. The level of third-party data use was high: for 100 datasets deposited in year 0, we estimated that 40 papers in PubMed reused a dataset by year 2, 100 by year 4, and more than 150 data reuse papers had been published by year 5. Data reuse was distributed across a broad base of datasets: a very conservative estimate found that 20% of the datasets deposited between 2003 and 2007 had been reused at least once by third parties.\nCONCLUSION:    After accounting for other factors affecting citation rate, we find a robust citation benefit from open data, although a smaller one than previously reported. We conclude there is a direct effect of third-party data reuse that persists for years beyond the time when researchers have published most of the papers reusing their own data. Other factors that may also contribute to the citation boost are considered. We further conclude that, at least for gene expression microarray data, a substantial fraction of archived datasets are reused, and that the intensity of dataset reuse has been steadily increasing since 2003.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Science Policy'], [u'National Evolutionary Synthesis Center, Duke University', u'Department of Biology, University of North Carolina - Chapel Hill']]
[u'Challenges in VGI for scientific projects', ['Jens Ingensand', 'Sarah Composto', 'Marion Nappez', 'Timothee Produit', 'Olivier Ertz', 'Mathias Oberson', 'Daniel Rappo'], u'2016-04-22', u'Volunteered Geographic Information (VGI) is a recent trend that has been successfully used in order to collect and share geographic information. This method is of interest for scientists who are in need of data and who want to get people involved in their cause. In this paper we discuss the challenges and opportunities that scientists may face when using the concept. An initial challenge is to find users who are willing to contribute. Second, scientist must get these users to interact with the application and with each other. The final goal is to end up with high quality data that can be used for scientific research.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1992/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Mobile and Ubiquitous Computing', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Department EC+G, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland, School of Business and Engineering Vaud', u'Department Comem+, University of Applied Sciences Western Switzerland, School of Business and Engineering Vaud']]
[u'Different regulation of chromatin modification guide cellular reprogramming into a rate-limited step after initiation phase', ['Rong Hu', 'Xianhua Dai', 'Zhiming Dai', 'Qian Xiang'], u'2016-04-22', u'Background. In the early and late stages of cell reprogramming to induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) ectopic expression of Oct4, Sox2, Klf4 and Myc (OSKM) aroused two peaks of transcriptional and epigenetic change respectively. However, it was relatively quiet in the intermediate stage. In this paper our aim is to gain insight into the molecular events that occur after the initiation phase of pluripotency induction. Methods. GSE42379 containing 28 gene expression profiles and GSE42477 containing 10 genome binding/occupancy profiles of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEF) were downloaded from GEO. These datasets included untreated MEFs, OSKM-induced MEFs progressing and refractory to reprogram at 3, 6, 9, 12 day post-transduction, and iPS cell lines. Differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified between different cell lines. The Chip-seq peaks and putative target gene were obtained from GeneProf website. Gene ontology analysis was performed on the Ensemble website. Result. Compared with the progressing cells, the refractory cells obtained more than two times DEGs at 6 day post-transduction, in particular, down-regulated DEGs related to cell cycle, cell adhesion and development were over 4 times of that in progressing cells. The expression of the DEGs which could only be detected in refractory cells at 6 day were traced back to day 3, and we found the expression of the up-regulated DEGs at 3 day were higher in refractory cells, whereas the expression of the down-regulated DEGs at 3 day were lower in refractory cells. The analysis of histone modification in genome-wide and in DEGs showed that during the reprogramming process the increase of bivalent sites in genome were mainly attributed to gaining of H3K27me3 and losing of H3K4me3. Different regulation of H3K27me3 in DEGs was the key to regulate the expression differently in progressing and refractory cells. The expression of chromatin modifiers in the two cell populations were checked and found to be differential regulated at different time point during reprogramming process. Conclusion. Genes related to immune response, cell adhesion, DNA replication and cell cycle in the refractory cells responded to the induction factor earlier than in the progressing cells, which led to excessive conversion rate. We supposed that after initiation phase cellular reprogramming required to undergo a rate-limited step guided by different regulation of chromatin modification.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1991/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Cell Biology', 'Mathematical Biology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Statistics'], [u'School of Information Science and Technology, Sun Yat-sen University', u'Department of Applied Mathematics, Guangdong University of Finance']]
[u'Design of an open source framework for oil spill decision support system', ['Sahar Mokhtari', 'Jiri Kadlec'], u'2016-04-22', u'Oil spill in marine ecosystems have serious short term and long term effects on aquatics lifecycle and on social and economic activities. A Decision Support System (DSS) can assist environmental managers to visualize the distribution of oil pollution, identify sensitive areas that are likely to be exposed to oil pollutions, and assess vulnerable resources. This paper describes the design of an open source software framework and a prototype desktop software application of a DSS for oil spill management. This system can be connected to an open source oil spill simulation model. We also present a user interface for selecting the properties, time and location of a potential oil spill and for visualizing the oil spill affected area and its impact on coastal zone.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1990/', ['Human-Computer Interaction', 'Scientific Computing and Simulation', 'Spatial and Geographic Information Systems'], [u'Department of Environment, Faculty of Natural Resources, Tarbiat Modares University', u'Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Brigham Young University']]
[u'Will 1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine-based drugs resist metabolism by cytochrome P450 compound I?', ['Pedro J Silva'], u'2016-04-22', u'1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine is a structural and electronic analogue of benzene which is able to occupy benzene-binding pockets in T4 lysozymeand has been proposed as suitable arene-mimicking group for biological and pharmaceutical applications. Its applicability in a biological context requires it to be able to resist modification by xenobiotic-degrading enzymes like the P450 cytochromes. Quantum chemical computations described in this work show that 1,2-dihydro-1,2-azaborine is much more prone to modification by these enzymes than benzene, unless steric crowding of the ring prevents it from reaching the active site, or otherwise only allows reaction at the very sluggish C4-position. This novel heterocyclic compound is therefore expected to be of limited usefulness as an aryl bioisostere.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1989/', ['Biochemistry', 'Biophysics'], [u'FP-ENAS/Fac. de Ci\xeancias da Sa\xfade, Universidade Fernando Pessoa']]
[u'Long term economic evaluation of interventions targeting multiple mental health conditions: protocol for a rapid review of methods', ['Alastair G Canaway', 'Christopher J Sampson'], u'2016-04-22', u'Background. Interventions and services for people with mental health problems can have broad remits: they are often designed to treat people with a variety of diagnoses. Furthermore, addressing mental health problems can have long term implications for economic, social and health outcomes. This represents a challenge for economic evaluation, where long term trial data can be lacking. In this review we will seek to identify how analysts have sought to tackle this problem. We will review the methods used to extrapolate costs and outcomes for the purpose of economic evaluation, where long term trial data are not available. Methods/design. We will carry out a review of the medical and economic literature evaluating long-term costs and outcomes for mental health interventions and services designed to treat or prevent more than two mental health conditions. We will search the key health economic databases, including: OVID Medline, Embase, Psycinfo, CINAHL, and EconLit. The two authors will independently screen the returned results. Any discrepancies will be resolved by deliberation between the two authors. Key information will be extracted from the papers which successfully pass through the screening process. The findings will be highlighted through a narrative analysis and tabulated data. Discussion. This review will shed light on the existing methods used to model into the future when multiple mental health conditions are considered. The review will discuss the strengths and weakness within current methodologies, highlight existing flaws, and provide guidance for future economic evaluations of interventions targeting multiple mental health conditions.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1988/', ['Clinical Trials', 'Evidence Based Medicine', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick', u'Division of Rehabilitation and Ageing, University of Nottingham']]
[u'Determining factors affecting moose population change in British Columbia: an update', ['Shelley Marshall', 'Gerald Kuzyk', 'Doug Heard', 'Chris Procter', 'Michael Gillingham', 'Helen Schnwantje', 'Conrad Thiessen', 'Becky Cadsand', 'Michael Klaczek', 'Adrian Batho', 'Cait Nelson', 'Heidi Schindler', 'Dexter Hodder'], u'2016-04-22', u'In response to declining moose numbers in central British Columbia (BC), the BC Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations initiated a five-year (December 2013\u2013March 2018) provincially coordinated, moose-research project. The primary research objective is to identify the causes and rates of cow moose mortality and examine factors that contributed to their increased vulnerability, with particular reference to the landscape-change hypothesis. Cow moose were instrumented with GPS (Global Positioning System) radio collars and monitored in five study areas that were selected based on their moose population trend and landscape conditions, particularly the degree of mountain pine beetle salvage logging and associated road building. Samples were collected during capture for health testing. Rapid-response, mortality-site investigations were the key technique to determining probable cause of death of the collared cows. As of April 19, 2016, 336 cow moose had been fitted with GPS collars. The majority of cow moose were in good body condition, had pregnancy rates within the normal range, and showed no indication of immediate disease or parasite concerns at the population level. During this study period, the status of radio-collared cow moose was: 243 active, 49 failed (i.e., either stopped collecting location data or slipped from moose), and 44 mortalities. Probable cause of death for the 44 mortalities was predation (20), hunting (9; licensed 1, unlicensed 8), apparent starvation (4), vehicle collision (1), natural (1), unknown natural (1), health-related (1), unknown health-related (4), and unknown (3). The combined annual survival rate of cow moose from all study areas was 92 \xb1 8% in 2013/14, 92 \xb1 5% in 2014/15 and 88 \xb1 4% in 2015/16 (to April 19, 2016) \u2014 all within the normal range for stable moose populations. Preliminary results determined predation was responsible for 45% of the collared moose mortalities. Health testing is pending on samples collected from these collared moose mortalities which may provide insight on body condition or pre-existing conditions that may have increased their vulnerability to predation.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1987/', ['Biodiversity', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'Tithonus Wildlife Research', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'University of Northern British Columbia', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations, Government of British Columbia', u'John Prince Research Forest']]
[u'CATALISE: a multinational and multidisciplinary Delphi consensus study. Identifying language impairments in children', ['Dorothy V Bishop', 'Margaret J Snowling', 'Paul A Thompson', 'Trisha Greenhalgh'], u'2016-04-22', u"Delayed or impaired language development is a common developmental concern, yet there is little agreement about the criteria used to identify and classify language impairments in children. Children's language difficulties are at the interface between education, medicine and the allied professions, who may all adopt different approaches to conceptualising them. Our goal in this study was to use an online Delphi technique to see whether it was possible to achieve consensus among professionals on appropriate criteria for identifying children who might benefit from specialist services. We recruited a panel of 59 experts representing ten disciplines (including education, psychology, speech-language therapy/pathology, paediatrics and child psychiatry) from English-speaking countries (Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, United Kingdom and USA). The starting point for round 1 was a set of 46 statements based on articles and commentaries in a special issue of a journal focusing on this topic. Panel members rated each statement for both relevance and validity on a seven-point scale, and added free text comments. These responses were synthesised by the first two authors, who then removed, combined or modified items with a view to improving consensus. The resulting set of statements was returned to the panel for a second evaluation (round 2). Consensus (percentage reporting 'agree' or 'strongly agree') was at least 80 per cent for 24 of 27 round 2 statements, though many respondents qualified their response with written comments. These were again synthesised by the first two authors. The resulting consensus statement is reported here, with additional summary of relevant evidence, and a concluding commentary on residual disagreements and gaps in the evidence base.", u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1986/', ['Cognitive Disorders', 'Pediatrics', 'Psychiatry and Psychology'], [u'Experimental Psychology, University of Oxford', u'Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford']]
[u'Mitochondrial DNA suggests recent origins in two coastal avian subspecies in northwestern North America', ['Rebecca Cheek', 'Kyle K Campbell', 'Robert Dickerman', 'Berry Wijdeven', 'Kevin Winker'], u'2016-04-22', u'Genetic studies of subspecies endemic to Haida Gwaii (Queen Charlotte Islands), British Columbia and the Alexander Archipelago of southeast Alaska have frequently found genetic corroboration for these phenotypically based taxa. Divergence and speciation are common among island populations of birds, and evidence suggests this region has fostered such divergence during previous glacial maxima. We examined genetic divergence in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) of two coastal subspecies endemic to this region: sharp-shinned hawk (Accipiter striatus perobscurus) and great blue heron (Ardea herodias fannini). Genetic diversity in both species was remarkably low, with both coastal subspecies possessing only the most common haplotype found in continental populations. We found low but significant population divergence between A. s. perobscurus and continental populations of sharp-shinned hawks and no significant population divergence in the herons. The refugial history of the region suggests that these subspecies may have arisen relatively recently compared with other regional endemics for which genetic and phenotypic data both show divergence. Alternatively, species-wide selective sweeps of mtDNA prior to divergence may have rendered this genetic marker less useful for tracking that divergence.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1985/', ['Genetics', 'Zoology'], [u'University of Alaska Museum and Department of Biology and Wildlife, University of Alaska Museum', u'Ornithology Collection, University of Alaska Museum', u'University of Southwestern Biology, University of New Mexico', u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resources Operations']]
[u'Oops, my tests broke the build: An analysis of Travis CI builds with GitHub', ['Moritz Beller', 'Georgios Gousios', 'Andy Zaidman'], u'2016-04-22', u'Continuous Integration (CI) has become a best practice of modern software development. At present, we have a shortfall of insight into the testing practices that are common in CI-based software development. In particular, we seek quantifiable evidence on how central testing really is in CI, how strongly the project language influences testing, whether different integration environments are valuable and if testing on the CI can serve as a surrogate to local testing in the IDE. In an analysis of 2,640,825 Java and Ruby builds on Travis CI, we find that testing is the single most important reason why builds fail. Moreover, the programming language has a strong influence on both the number of executed tests, their test run time and proneness to fail. The use of multiple integration environments leads to 10% more failures being caught at build time. However, testing in the CI does not seem to be a good surrogate for running tests in the IDE. To facilitate further research on Travis CI with GitHub, we introduce TravisTorrent.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1984/', ['Data Science', 'Programming Languages', 'Software Engineering'], [u'Delft University of Technology', u'Radboud University Nijmegen']]
[u'BioMine: A database for metazoan biomineralization proteins', ['Bishoy S Hanna', 'Christian R Voolstra', 'Monica Medina'], u'2016-04-21', u'Biomineralization is the process by which living organisms construct hard skeletons creating complex structures that range from specialized tissues such as bone or teeth to ecosystems such as coral reefs. Biominerals are composed of both inorganic minerals and proteins, which give them extra hardness and special attributes. Biomineralization proteins are also known to be associated with multiple bone disorders and are therefore of biomedical importance. Herein we describe BioMine, a biomineralization centric protein database. Availability and implementation: BioMine can be accessed at http://biomine.net, SQL dump, FASTA files and source code are available for download as well.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1983/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Genomics'], [u'Department of Biology, Pennsylvania State University', u'Red Sea Research Center, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology']]
[u'The health care and life sciences community profile for dataset descriptions', ['Michel Dumontier', 'Alasdair J G Gray', 'M. Scott Marshall', 'Vladimir Alexiev', 'Peter Ansell', 'Gary Bader', 'Joachim Baran', 'Jerven T Bolleman', 'Alison Callahan', 'Jose Cruz-Toledo', 'Pascale Gaudet', 'Erich A Gombocz', 'Alejandra N Gonzalez Beltran', 'Paul Groth', 'Melissa Melissa Haendel', 'Maori Ito', 'Simon Jupp', 'Nick Juty', 'Toshiaki Katayama', 'Norio Kobayashi', 'Kalpana Krishnaswami', 'Camille Laibe', 'Nicolas Le Novere', 'Simon Lin', 'James Malone', 'Michael Miller', 'Christopher J Mungall', 'Laurens Rietveld', 'Sarala M Wimalaratne', 'Atsuko Yamaguchi'], u'2016-04-21', u'Access to consistent, high-quality metadata is critical to finding, understanding, and reusing scientific data. However, while there are many relevant vocabularies for the annotation of a dataset, none sufficiently captures all the necessary metadata. This prevents uniform indexing and querying of dataset repositories. Towards providing a practical guide for producing a high quality description of biomedical datasets, the W3C Semantic Web for Health Care and the Life Sciences Interest Group (HCLSIG) identified Resource Description Framework (RDF) vocabularies that could be used to specify common metadata elements and their value sets. The resulting guideline covers elements of description, identification, attribution, versioning, provenance, and content summarization. This guideline reuses existing vocabularies, and is intended to meet key functional requirements including indexing, discovery, exchange, query, and retrieval of datasets, thereby enabling the publication of FAIR data. The resulting metadata profile is generic and could be used by other domains with an interest in providing machine readable descriptions of versioned datasets.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1982/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Taxonomy', 'Computational Science'], [u'Stanford Center for Biomedical Informatics Research, Stanford University', u'Computer Science, Heriot-Watt University', u'Department of Radiation Oncology (MAASTRO), GROW - School for Oncology and Developmental Biology, MAASTRO Clinic', u'Ontotext Corporation', u'CSIRO', u'The Donnelly Centre, University of Toronto', u'Swiss-Prot group, SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics', u'Carleton University', u'SIB Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics', u'IO Informatics', u'Oxford e-Research Centre, University of Oxford', u'Elsevier Labs', u'Department of Medical Informatics and Epidemiology, Oregon Health Sciences University', u'NIBIO', u'EMBL, European Bioinformatics Institute', u'Database Center for Life Sciences', u'RIKEN', u'Cerenode Inc.', u'Babraham Institute', u"Nationwide Children's Hospital", u'Institute for Systems Biology', u'Environmental Genomics and Systems Biology, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory', u'Department of Exact Sciences, VU University Amsterdam', u'Research Organization of Information and Systems, Database Center for Life Sciences']]
[u'Insights into student gains from undergraduate research using pre/post assessments', ['Andrew McDevitt', 'Mainsha V Patel', 'Brad Rose', 'Aaron M Ellison'], u'2016-04-21', u'Undergraduate research experiences (UREs) in STEM fields expose students to scientific research and are thought to increase student retention in STEM. We developed a pre/post survey and administered it to participants of the Harvard Forest Summer Research Program in Ecology (HF-SRPE) to evaluate effectiveness of these programmatic goals. Between 2005 and 2015, the survey was sent to all 263 HF-SRPE participants; 79% completed it. Results, controlled for prior experiences, revealed significant improvements across all learning goals. Prior laboratory research experience and perception of being a respected member of a research team were positively associated with gains in research skills and abilities to do and present research. Although the pre/post surveys did not indicate changes in students\u2019 goals of pursuing STEM careers (or, more narrowly, ecological ones), the positive learning gains suggest that students with prior interests in STEM fields take advantage of UREs to solidify further their aspirations in STEM.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1981/', ['Ecology', 'Science and Medical Education'], [u'Harvard Forest, Harvard University', u'Brad Rose Consulting, Brad Rose Consulting']]
[u'Detection of methylation, acetylation and glycosylation of protein residues by monitoring 13C chemical-shift changes', ['Pablo G. Garay', 'Osvaldo A. Martin', 'Harold A. Scheraga', 'Jorge A. Vila'], u'2016-04-21', u'Post-translational modifications of proteins expand the diversity of the proteome by several orders of magnitude and have a profound effect on several biological processes. Their detection by experimental methods is not free of limitations such as the amount of sample needed or the use of destructive procedures to obtain the sample. Certainly, new approaches are needed and, therefore, we explore here, as a proof-of-concept, the feasibility of using 13C chemical shifts of different nuclei to detect methylation, acetylation and glycosylation of protein residues by monitoring the deviation of the 13C chemical shifts from the expected (mean) experimental value of the non-modified residue. As a validation test of this approach, we compare our theoretical computations of the 13Ce chemical-shift values against experimental data, obtained from NMR spectroscopy, for methylated and acetylated lysine residues with good agreement within ~1 ppm. Then, further use of this approach to select the most suitable 13C-nucleus, with which to determine other modifications commonly seen, such as methylation of arginine and glycosylation of serine, asparagine and threonine, shows encouraging results.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1980/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology'], [u'IMASL-CONICET', u'Chemistry and Chemical Biology, Cornell University']]
[u'Fecal corticosterone excretion in captive healthy and feather picking African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus)', ['Pierluca Costa', 'Elisabetta Macchi', 'Emanuela Valle', 'Michele De Marco', 'Laura Gasco', 'Achille Schiavone'], u'2016-04-21', u'Feather picking (FP) is a common problem in companion parrots, especially in African grey parrots (Psittacus erithacus). Many hypothesis have been made about this self-mutilating behavior, and serious psychological conflicts can play a pivotal role in the initiation of this self-defeating and self-punishing behaviour. Even though ethological distress is difficult to study, the monitoring of fecal corticoids is a useful non-invasive tool that can be used to assess stress in animals. The purpose of the present study was to compare the fecal corticosterone levels of companion African grey parrots kept as wild-type parrots (WT), healthy pet parrots (HP) and feather picking pet parrots (FPP) during the breeding season and out of the breeding season. An African grey parrot group, composed of 82 individuals, has been studied; these birds were divided into three sub-groups: 1) WT, parrots that were reared by their biological parents, kept in couples and with a regular reproduction activity; 2) HP, parrots that were hand-reared, but did not show any FP symptoms; 3) FPP, parrots that were hand-reared and that showed signs of FP. Fecal samples were collected in the morning on alternate days, during the breeding seasons and out of the breeding season. The fecal corticosterone and immunoreactive corticosterone metabolites were determined using a pan-specific corticosterone enzyme immunoassay kit (K014; Arbor Assays\xae, Ann Arbor, MI) validated for dried fecal extracts. Analysis of Variance was used to examine any variations due to the breeding season and among the groups of parrots. WT and HP parrots showed lower corticosterone levels than FPP parrots. The fecal corticosterone concentration showed an average (sum of the two seasons) of 74.10 \xb1 16.89 ng/g in the WT parrots; 79.56 \xb1 21.23 ng/g in the HP parrots and 185.53 \xb1 34.83 in the FPP parrots. A statistical trend between fecal corticosterone concentration in the different seasons for the WT parrots (P=0.085) was observed, but not for the other groups. The results suggest that 1) the highest levels of fecal corticosterone are excreted by birds affected by FP; 2) the observed highest level of corticosterone in FPP parrot suggests a role of stress in this self-injuring stereotypic behavior.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1979/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Veterinary Medicine'], [u'Department of Veterinary Science, University of Turin', u'Department of Agricultural, Forest and Food Sciences, University of Turin']]
[u'Managing elk in a world with complex predator-prey (and social!) dynamics: A case study from the Kootenays', ['Tara Szkorupa', 'Gerald Kuzyk'], u'2016-04-21', u'I will present current challenges to managing elk in a multi-predator/multi-prey system in the Kootenay Region of southeast BC. Elk in this region are highly valued by licensed hunters, First Nations and the general public and are one of the most controversial and closely monitored wildlife populations in the province. In 2010, BC Fish and Wildlife developed an elk management plan for the Kootenay Region following extensive stakeholder involvement. At that time there was relatively little regard for predation since elk populations were increasing and thought to be at or near carrying capacity in many areas. Concerns centered around the effects of large elk populations on grassland ecosystems, other wildlife species (such as bighorn sheep) and agricultural operations. Objectives for elk population targets were established by considering social and ecological criteria, and focused on reducing or maintaining populations using hunting as the primary management tool. Elk management from 2010 to 2014 followed guidance from the plan and objectives were largely achieved. Since 2014, managing elk populations has been largely reactive to the effects of predation. Information on predation is gathered from elk population and composition surveys, radio-collared elk, and anecdotal observations (e.g., from First Nations, the general public, biologists, and Conservation Officers). This information is then applied to management, in consideration of social perspectives identified through public surveys and focus group meetings. For example, wildlife staff consider predation effects on population size and trend when setting cow/calf elk seasons and number of Limited Entry Hunt authorizations. In the fall of 2015, wildlife staff began developing a provincial management plan for Rocky Mountain elk. A key part of this plan will be a management tool table, which will identify potential tools (e.g., predator management to increase elk populations), their likely biological effectiveness, as well as relevant policy, social, and economic considerations. I will provide an overview of these tools, focusing on those related to predator-prey dynamics.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1978/', ['Science Policy'], [u'Ministry of Forests, Lands and Natural Resource Operations']]
[u'Do plant secondary metabolites help drive avian granivore seed selection?', ['Christopher J Whelan', 'Diya Majumdar', 'Joel S Brown', 'Amy E Hank', 'Andrea Iorgovan'], u'2016-04-21', u'Plant secondary metabolites (PSMs), found virtually universally throughout the plant kingdom, function in myriad ways, including defense against enemies, attraction of pollinators, communication between plants, and protection against various abiotic stressors. Extensive research has examined how PSMs mediate interactions between plants and herbivores and plant and frugivores. In contrast, little research has investigated their potential role in defense against granivores. In two seed selection experiments, we quantified seed preference of house sparrows and native granivores, respectively, when offered each of 10 native seeds and proso millet, a commercial bird seed. House sparrows and native granivores greatly preferred millet over all offered native seeds. House sparrows largely rejected seeds of all five wildflower species, but native granivores preferred three of the five wildflowers. House sparrows readily consumed seeds of all five native grass species, but native granivores rejected Canada rye. House sparrows and native granivores both rejected seeds of Illinois bundle flower. Although seed preferences in the non-native house sparrow and native granivores differed significantly, we have found no consistent relationship between seed selection and presence or absence of classes of plant secondary metabolites.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1977/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Ecology'], [u'Department of Biological Sciences, University of Illinois at Chicago', u'Chicago Public Schools, Steinmetz Academic Centre High School']]
[u'Glyoxylate reductase as versatile enzymatic system for pharmaceutical and medical use', ['Jan Kutner', 'Ivan Shabalin', 'Dorota Matelska', 'Katarzyna B Handing', 'Olga Gasiorowska', 'Piotr Sroka', 'Krzysztof Ginalski', 'Wladek Minor', 'Krzysztof Wozniak'], u'2016-04-21', u'The chiral homogeneity of a chemical compound is the main prerequisite in safety and efficiency of drug substances and generation of single enantiomers of drug intermediates in pharmaceutical industry. Over the past several years there have been an increase wide variety of enzymes and bioengineered microorganisms used for biotransformation of chemicals with chemo- regio- and enantioselectivity. The direct evolution \u2013 a combination of biochemistry, molecular biology, structural biology and bioinformatics predictions can modulate enzyme stability, reactivity or substrate specificity. One example of enzymes used in pharmaceutical industry are enzymes from the D-2-hydroxyacid dehydrogenase (2HADH) family. They catalyze reversible reduction of 2-oxoacids to 2-hydroxyacids in an NAD(P)H dependent manner, playing a key role in metabolism of many organisms. One of the enzyme group from 2HADH family is glyoxylate reductase (GR). The advantages of these enzymes have been recently recognized by pharmaceutical and biotechnological industry, considering a possibility of highly stereospecific biotransformation of \u03b1-ketoacids into homochiral \u03b1-hydroxyacids, as important industrial intermediates. The glycolic acid, reduced by the enzyme into ethylene glycol, the smallest member of the \u03b1-hydroxy acid family, is nowadays obtained in a large-scale industrial process. The monomeric structure of the enzyme comprises two domains typical for NAD(P)-dependent dehydrogenases: the substrate-binding domain (SBD) and the nucleotide-binding domain (NBD). Several crystal X-ray structures of glyoxylate reductase from different species have been already solved, but only few of them were determined with the bound substrate and/or cofactor. Such structures are crucial in understanding the reaction mechanism and for predicting or designing the structures of new substrates for the enzyme. We will communicate the structural study of two homodimeric glyoxylate reductases from S. meliloti (SmGR1 and SmGR2). We have solved the crystal structures for SmGR1 and SmGR2 with bound oxalate and NADPH and compared them with the structures of other glyoxylate reductases subfamily members: from Rhizobium etli (with L(+)-tartaric acid and NADP) and human (with (2 R )-2,3-dihydroxypropanoic acid and NADPH). During the ligand and cofactor binding the catalytic domain rotates towards coenzyme-binding site, changing its structure from open to close conformation. Using biochemical tools and kinetics approaches we have also shown that Sm GR1 and Sm GR2 possess substrate specificity to hydroxypuryvate, hydroxylphenylpyruvate and gloxylate, providing new insights into the potential pharmaceutical and medical uses of this family of enzymes.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1976/', ['Biochemistry', 'Bioinformatics', 'Biotechnology', 'Computational Biology', 'Molecular Biology'], [u'Biomacromolecular Research Laboratory, Biological and Chemical Research Centre, Department of Chemistry, University of Warsaw', u'Department of Molecular Physiology and Biological Physics, University of Virginia', u'Laboratory of Bioinformatics and Systems Biology, Centre of New Technologies, University of Warsaw']]
[u'Involvement of the mirror neuron system and the mentalizing system during communicative gesture production: a meta-analysis', ['Jie Yang'], u'2016-04-20', u'Background. Hand gestures play an important role in face-to-face communication. Although studies have shown that the mirror neuron system and the mentalizing system are involved in gesture comprehension, evidence of how the two systems are activated during gesture production is scattered and the conclusion is unclear. Methods. To address this issue, the current meta-analysis used activation likelihood estimation (ALE) method to quantitatively summarize the results of previous functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies on communicative gesture production. Eight studies were selected based on several criteria (e.g., using fMRI technique, involving healthy adults, using gesture production tasks, conducting whole-brain analysis, and reporting activation foci in the MNI or Talairach space). ALE was conducted to calculate the overall brain effects for gesture production, and subsequently the brain effects for gesture execution, planning, and imitation. Results. The meta-analysis results showed that overall both systems (inferior parietal lobule and medial cortical structures) were involved in gesture production. Further analyses indicated that the mirror neuron system and the primary motor cortex were selectively involved in gesture execution, whereas the menalizing system and the premotor cortex were selectively involved in gesture planning. In gesture imitation, significant effects were found in both systems. Discussion. These results suggest that the mirror neuron system and the mentalizing system play different roles during gesture production. The former may be involved in the processes that require the mapping between observed actions and motor representations or the retrieval of motor representations; whereas the later may be involved when the production tasks require understanding others\u2019 mental states.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1975/', ['Neuroscience', 'Psychiatry and Psychology', 'Statistics'], [u'ARC Centre of Excellence in Cognition and its Disorders, Department of Cognitive Sciences, Macquarie University']]
[u'Deconvoluting simulated metagenomes: the performance of hard- and soft- clustering algorithms applied to metagenomic chromosome conformation capture (3C)', ['Matthew Z DeMaere', 'Aaron E Darling'], u'2016-04-20', u'Background. Chromosome conformation capture, coupled with high throughput DNA sequencing in protocols like Hi-C and 3C-seq, has been proposed as viable means to generate data to resolve the genomes of microorganisms living in naturally occuring environments. Metagenomic Hi-C and 3C-seq datasets have begun to emerge, but the feasibility of resolving genomes when closely related organisms (strain-level diversity) are present in the sample has not yet been systematically characterised. Methods. We developed a computational simulation pipeline for metagenomic 3C and Hi-C se- quencing to evaluate the accuracy of genomic reconstructions at, above, and below an operationally defined species boundary. We simulated datasets and measured accuracy over a wide range of parameters. Five clustering algorithms were evaluated (2 hard, 3 soft) using an adaptation of the extended B-cubed validation measure. Results. When all genomes in a sample are below 95% sequence identity, all of the tested clustering algorithms performed well. When sequence data contains genomes above 95% identity (our operational definition of strain-level diversity), a naive soft-clustering extension of the Louvain method achieves the highest performance. Discussion. Previously, only hard-clustering algorithms have been applied to metagenomic 3C and Hi-C data, yet none of these perform well when strain-level diversity exists in a metagenomic sample. Our simple extension of the Louvain method performed the best in these scenarios, however, accuracy remained well below the levels observed for samples without strain-level diversity. Strain resolution is also highly dependent on the amount of available 3C sequence data, suggesting that depth of sequencing must be carefully considered during experimental design. Finally, there appears to be great scope to improve the accuracy of strain resolution through further algorithm development.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1974/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Computational Biology', 'Genomics', 'Microbiology', 'Computational Science'], [u'ithree institute, University of Technology Sydney']]
[u'Association of potential salivary biomarkers with diabetic retinopathy and its severity in type-2 diabetes mellitus: a proteomic analysis by mass spectrometry', ['Chin Soon Chee', 'Khai Meng Chang', 'Mun Fai Loke', 'Voon Pei Angela Loo', 'Visvaraja Subrayan'], u'2016-04-19', u'Aim/hypothesis The aim of our study was to characterize the human salivary proteome and determine the changes in protein expression in 2 different stages of diabetic retinopathy with type-2 diabetes mellitus: (1) with non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) and (2) with proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR). Type-2 diabetes without diabetic retinopathy (XDR) was designated as control. Method In this study, 45 saliva samples were collected (15 samples from XDR control group, 15 samples from NPDR disease group and 15 samples from PDR disease group). Salivary proteins were extracted, reduced, alkylated, trypsin digested and labeled with iTRAQ before analyzing by Orbitrap fusion tribrid mass spectrometer. Proteins annotation, fold change calculation and statistical analysis were interrogated by Proteome Discoverer. Biological pathway analysis was performed by Ingenuity Pathway Analysis. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifiers PXD003723-PX003725. Results A total of 315 proteins were identified from the salivary proteome and 119 proteins were found to be differentially expressed. The differentially expressed proteins from the NPDR disease group and the PDR disease group were assigned to respective canonical pathways indicating increased LXR/RXR activation, FXR/RXR activation, acute phase response signaling, sucrose degradation V and regulation of actin-based motility by Rho in the PDR disease group compared to the NPDR disease group Conclusions/Interpretation Progression from non-proliferative to proliferative retinopathy in type-2 diabetic patients is a complex multi-mechanism and systemic process. Furthermore, saliva was shown to be a feasible alternative sample source for diabetic retinopathy biomarkers.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1973/', ['Biochemistry', 'Diabetes and Endocrinology', 'Ophthalmology'], [u'Department of Ophthalmology, University of Malaya', u'Department of Medical Microbiology/ Faculty of Medicine, University of Malaya']]
[u'Towards stable caribou populations in Alberta: Considering resource selection by wolves, grizzly bears, and caribou to prioritize restoration of legacy seismic lines', ['Doug MacNearney', 'Karine E Pigeon', 'Jerome Cranston', 'Gordon Stenhouse', 'Laura Finnegan'], u'2016-04-19', u'Throughout their range, the decline of woodland caribou populations is thought to be a result of habitat degradation and fragmentation from industrial activities. Land managers are under pressure to restore habitat within caribou ranges and mitigate potential negative effects of resource extraction on caribou into the future. Considering the historical anthropogenic footprint in Alberta, restoration efforts need to be prioritized. Using a combination of LiDAR and animal GPS data, we investigated the influence of vegetation height on the selection of seismic lines, and the zone of influence of these features on grizzly bears, wolves, and caribou within four caribou ranges in west-central Alberta. Our objective was to integrate the influence of vegetation height on seismic lines, seismic line density, and the zone of influence of these seismic lines on caribou and their predators to identify areas with the highest probability of overlap among grizzly bears, wolves, and caribou to prioritize restoration of legacy seismic lines in Alberta and increase functional habitat for caribou. Based on LiDAR, the average vegetation height of 12,854 km (83%) of seismic lines was less than 1.5 m while 2,392 km (15%) of seismic lines had a vegetation height between 1.5 m and 5 m, and 341 km (2%) of seismic lines had an average vegetation height greater than 5 m. Animal responses to seismic lines varied seasonally and were dependent on regeneration stage. This research highlights predator-prey interactions on a managed landscape and how our knowledge of these mechanisms is essential to effectively prioritize restoration.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1972/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology'], [u'Caribou Program, fRI Research', u'Arctos Ecological Consultants', u'fRI Research Grizzly Bear Program']]
[u'MOST: A modified MLST typing tool based on short read sequencing', ['Rediat Tewolde', 'Timothy Dallman', 'Ulf Schaefer', 'Carmen L Sheppard', 'Philip Ashton', 'Bruno Pichon', 'Matthew Ellington', 'Craig Swift', 'Jonathan Green', 'Anthony Underwood'], u'2016-04-19', u'Multilocus sequence typing (MLST) is an effective method to describe bacterial populations. Conventionally, MLST involves Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)amplification of housekeeping genes followed by Sanger DNA sequencing. Public Health England (PHE) is in the process of replacing the conventional MLST methodology with a method based on short read sequence data derived from Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS). This paper reports the comparison of the reliability of MLST results derived from WGS data, comparing mapping and assembly-based approaches to conventional methods using 325 bacterial genomes of diverse species. The sensitivity of the two WGS based methods were further investigated with 26 mixed and 29 low coverage genomic data sets from Salmonella enteridis and Streptococcus pneumoniae. Of the 325 samples, 92.9% (n=302), 97.2% (n=316) and 99.7% (n=324) full MLST profiles were derived by the conventional method, assembly- and mapping-based approaches, respectively. The concordance between samples that were typed by conventional (92.9%) and both WGS methods was 100%. From the 55 mixed and low coverage genomes, 90.9% (n=50) and 67.3% (n=37) full MLST profiles were derived from the mapping and assembly based approaches, respectively. In conclusion, deriving MLST from WGS data is more sensitive than the conventional method. When comparing WGS based methods, the mapping based approach was the most sensitive. In addition, the mapping based approach described here derives quality metrics, which are difficult to determine quantitatively using conventional and WGS-assembly based approaches.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1971/', ['Bioinformatics', 'Microbiology'], [u'Infectious Disease Informatics Unit, Public Health England', u'Gastrointestinal Bacteria Reference Unit, Public Health England', u'Respiratory and Vaccine Preventable Bacteria Reference Unit, Public Health England', u'Antimicrobial Resistance and Healthcare Associated Infection unit, Public Health England']]
[u'Effect of fragmentation on the Costa Rican dry forest avifauna', ['Gilbert Barrantes', 'Diego Ocampo', 'Jose D. Ramirez-Fernandez', 'Eric J Fuchs'], u'2016-04-19', u'Deforestation and land use change have reduced the tropical dry forest in the northwestern region of Costa Rica into isolated fragments. We examined the effect of fragment area and length of the dry season (seasonality) on nestedness for the community (entire species matrix), assemblages (forest fragments), and species occupancy across fragments for the native avifauna, and for a subset of forest dependent species. Area or distance between fragments did not correlate with species richness across fragments. Similarity in bird community composition between fragments was related with habitat structure; fragments with similar forest structure have higher similarity in their avifaunas. Fragment area determined the pattern of nestedness of the bird community and species occupancy, but not the nestedness of assemblages across fragments in northwestern Costa Rican avifauna. Forest dependent species (species that require large tracts of mature forest) and assemblages of these species were nested along forest fragments ranked by seasonality gradient, but only occupancy of species nested by fragment area.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1970/', ['Biodiversity', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Escuela de Biolog\xeda, Universidad de Costa Rica']]
[u'Experimental evidence for concentration-dependence and intra-specific variation of movement behaviour in American lobster (Homarus americanus) larvae', ['Eric J Pedersen', 'Ryan R.E. Stanley', 'Paul V.R. Snelgrove', 'Frederic Guichard'], u'2016-04-19', u'Predicting dispersal paths of marine larvae with long pelagic durations, such as American lobster (Homarus americanus), requires understanding the cues to which larvae respond, and how that response reflects changes in larval behaviour. If larvae respond to conspecific presence by varying their movement, this behaviour can bias laboratory estimates of environmental responses. We tested whether larvae actively decreased their local intraspecific density by measuring how the vertical distribution of larvae changed under high versus low concentrations of conspecifics. We observed weak increases in vertical dispersion at higher concentrations in both newly-hatched larvae and in post-larvae, but not in intermediate larval stages. Further, we found that larvae from different mothers consistently differed in vertical distribution, which may indicate maternal effects on dispersal behavior. We also tested for differences in horizontal swimming behaviour in high and low concentrations, by fitting a novel random walk model that allowed us to model both larval interactions and persistent turning behaviours. We showed substantial reduction in diffusive behaviour under high concentration conditions resulting from more frequent turns by each larva, but no evidence for consistent avoidance of conspecifics. Our study is the first to demonstrate concentration-dependent behaviours in lobster larvae.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1969/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Aquaculture, Fisheries and Fish Science', 'Ecology', 'Marine Biology'], [u'Department of Biology, McGill University', u'Center for Limnology, University of Wisconsin-Madison', u'Department of Fisheries and Oceans Canada, Bedford Institute of Oceangraphy', u'Department of Ocean Sciences, Memorial Univerity']]
[u'A mathematical theory of knowledge, science, bias and pseudoscience', ['Daniele Fanelli'], u'2016-04-19', u'This essay unifies key epistemological concepts in a consistent mathematical framework built on two postulates: 1-information is finite; 2-knowledge is information compression. Knowledge is expressed by a function \\( K(Y;X) \\) and two fundamental operations, \\( \\oplus, \\otimes \\). This \\( K \\) function possesses fundamental properties that are intuitively ascribed to knowledge: it embodies Occam\'s razor, has one optimal level of accuracy, and declines with distance in time. Empirical knowledge differs from logico-deductive knowledge solely in having measurement error and therefore a "chaos horizon". The \\( K \\) function characterizes knowledge as a cumulation and manipulation of patterns. It allows to quantify the amount of knowledge gained by experience and to derive conditions that favour the increase of knowledge complexity. Scientific knowledge operates exactly as ordinary knowledge, but its patterns are conditioned on a "methodology" component. Analysis of scientific progress suggests that classic Popperian falsificationism only occurs under special conditions that are rarely realised in practice, and that reproducibility failures are virtually inevitable. Scientific "softness" is simply an encoding of weaker patterns, which are simultaneously cause and consequence of higher complexity of subject matter and methodology. Bias consists in information that is concealed in ante-hoc or post-hoc methodological choices. Disciplines typically classified as pseudosciences are sciences expressing extreme bias and therefore yield \\( K(Y;X) \\leq 0 \\). All knowledge-producing activities can be ranked in terms of a parameter \\(\\Xi \\in (-\\infty,\\infty) \\), measured in bits, which subsumes all quantities defined in the essay.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1968/', ['Computational Biology', 'Evolutionary Studies', 'Science Policy', 'Statistics', 'Computational Science'], [u'Meta-Research Innovation Center at Stanford (METRICS), Stanford University']]
[u'Moose refugia from predation by wolves near mines in the Athabasca oil sands', ['Eric Neilson', 'Stan Boutin'], u'2016-04-19', u'Areas near human disturbance may become prey refugia when predators avoid human activities more than their prey leading to decreased predation rates and/or increased prey population growth. Alberta\u2019s Athabasca oil sands region (AOSR) is home to moose (Alces alces) and wolf (Canis lupus) populations and is characterized by extensive human disturbance including open pit mines, tailings ponds and industrial facilities. We examined the extent to which moose could be released from predation near Alberta\u2019s Athabasca oil sands due to wolf avoidance of mining infrastructure. Using moose and wolves GPS telemetry, we compared the use of natural habitats and distance to mining features to the availability of these variables. We split mining features into high human-use facilities and low human-use pit mines and tailings ponds. We binned distance to mining features variables into distance buffers covering the range of moose home range diameters resulting in buffers of < 2.5 km, 2.5-5 km and 5-10 km. Moose models included an interaction between distance to mining features buffers and the distribution of wolves to assess whether moose exposure to wolves varies with proximity to human activity. We compared a habitat model including forest cover type, streams and rivers to a disturbance model using AIC. The model fitting habitat and distance to facilities was top-ranked for both species. Moose selection for areas near facilities was higher than wolves. Wolves avoided areas within 10 and 5 km of facilities but exhibited an equivocal response within 2.5 km. Moose exposure to wolves increased with distance to mines indicating that use of areas in proximity to human disturbance releases moose from predation by wolves. Human induced prey refugia could increase moose population growth and increase human-moose conflict. Additionally, moose dispersal out of the refuge areas could produce subsequent increases in the wolf population.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1967/', ['Animal Behavior', 'Conservation Biology', 'Ecology', 'Zoology'], [u'Biological Sciences, University of Alberta']]
[u'Phage on Tap \u2013 A quick and efficient protocol for the preparation of bacteriophage laboratory stocks', ['Natasha Bonilla', 'Maria Isabel Rojas', 'Giuliano Netto Flores Cruz', 'Shr-Hau Hung', 'Forest Rohwer', 'Jeremy J Barr'], u'2016-04-19', u'A major limitation with traditional phage preparations is the variability in titer, salts, and bacterial contaminants between successive propagations. Here we introduce the Phage On Tap (PoT) protocol for the quick and efficient preparation of homogenous bacteriophage (phage) stocks. This method produces homogenous, laboratory-scale, high titer (up to 1010-11 PFU\u2219ml-1), endotoxin reduced phage banks that can be used to eliminate the variability between phage propagations and improve the molecular characterizations of phage. The method consists of five major parts, including phage propagation, phage clean up by 0.22 \xb5m filtering and chloroform treatment, phage concentration by ultrafiltration, endotoxin removal, and the preparation and storage of phage banks for continuous laboratory use. From a starting liquid lysate of >100 mL, the PoT protocol generated a clean, homogenous, laboratory phage bank with a phage recovery efficiency of 85% within just two days. In contrast, the traditional method took upwards of five days to produce a high titer, but lower volume phage stock with a recovery efficiency of only 4%. Phage banks can be further purified for the removal of bacterial endotoxins, reducing endotoxin concentrations by over 3,000-fold while maintaining phage titer. The PoT protocol focused on T-like phages, but is broadly applicable to a variety of phages that can be propagated to sufficient titer, producing homogenous, high titer phage banks that are applicable for molecular and cellular assays.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1966/', ['Microbiology', 'Molecular Biology', 'Virology'], [u'Department of Biology, San Diego State University']]
[u'The influence of physical exercise and sports on telomere length - A model for telomere length and telomerase activity regulation based on a comparative assessment of literature', ['Paul F Lang', 'Kai-Uwe Frohlich'], u'2016-04-19', u'Based upon a comprehensive analysis of current literature and by combining a molecular biology and a sports science perspective, this review examines (1) if a correlation between physical activity load and telomere length (TL) exists, and (2) comprehensively analyses and integrates molecular pathways regulating exercise dependent TL dynamics. The focus is on TL in leukocytes and muscle tissue in middle to advanced aged subjects. Regarding item (1), a strong tendency for an increase in mean leukocyte TL was found for exercise energy expenditures up to about 2\u2219103 kcal/week, while for higher activity levels no conclusive statement can be made. Conversely, research on skeletal muscle TL so far is quite limited but suggests that physical exercise with prolonged eccentric muscle contractions rather acts to shorten telomeres, while sports with little eccentric contractions might rather act to lengthen telomeres. As to item (2), a model for hypothetical pathways for exercise dependent telomerase activity regulation is proposed by consolidating findings of different studies in different cells. Consistent with this pathway model, various studies report increased telomerase transcription or activation by exercise. Moreover, a qualitative overall model for endurance exercise related TL dynamics is presented. It considers telomeres as dynamic structures in equilibrium between telomere shortening (e.g., cellular turnover, oxidative stress, inflammation) and telomere lengthening (e.g., telomerase activity, telomerase recruitment) effects. A negative feedback-loop mediated by enhanced telomerase recruitment to short telomeres is assumed to counteract too excessive TL alterations. Finally, a proposal is put forth for future research on exercise dependent telomere dynamics by adopting a systems biology approach to develop mathematical models that properly integrate the complexity of the interacting variables.', u'https://peerj.com/preprints/1965/', ['Biochemistry', 'Molecular Biology', 'Geriatrics', 'Public Health'], [u'Department of Biology, ETH Z\xfcrich', u'Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Universit\xe4t Graz']]
